 down from the door where it began and i must follow if i can the road goes ever on and on down from the door where it began now far ahead the road has gone and i must follow if i can a wizard is never late, frodo baggins. nor is he early. he arrives precisely when he means to. you didn't think i'd miss your uncle bilbo's birthday? so how is the old rascal? i hear it's going to be a party of special magnificence. well, that should please him. what? good gracious me. indeed. if you're referring to the incident with the dragon. i was barely involved. all i did was give your uncle a little nudge out of the door. oh, really? so am i, dear boy. so am i. whoa, whoa. and what about very old friends? bilbo baggins. good to see you. 111 years old! who would believe it? you haven't aged a day. just tea, thank you. just tea, thank you. no, not at all. so you mean to go through with your plan? frodo suspects something. you will tell him, won't you? he's very fond of you. whoa up they go! meriadoc brandybuck and peregrin took. i might've known. i suppose you think that was terribly clever. there are many magic rings in this world, bilbo baggins  and none of them should be used lightly. two eyes. as often as i can spare them. what about this ring of yours? is that staying too? i think you should leave the ring behind, bilbo. is that so hard? there's no need to get angry. precious? it's been called that before, but not by you. i think you've had that ring quite long enough. bilbo baggins! do not take me for some conjurer of cheap tricks. i am not trying to rob you. i'm trying to help you. all your long years, we've been friends. trust me as you once did. let it go. bilbo. the ring is still in your pocket. and i'm sure you will, my dear friend. goodbye, dear bilbo. until our next meeting. riddles in the dark. my precious. precious. bilbo's ring. he's gone to stay with the elves. he's left you bag end. along with all his possessions. the ring is yours now. put it somewhere out of sight. there are some things that i must see to. questions. questions that need answering. neither do i. keep it secret. keep it safe. “the year 3434 of the second age. here follows the account of isildur, high king of gondor  and the finding of the ring of power.” “it has come to me. the one ring. it shall be an heirloom of my kingdom. all those who follow in my bloodline shall be bound to its fate  for i will risk no hurt to the ring. it is precious to me  though i buy it with great pain. the markings upon the band begin to fade. the writing, which at first was as clear as red flame, has all but disappeared. a secret now that only fire can tell.” is it secret? is it safe? hold out your hand, frodo. it's quite cool. what can you see? can you see anything? there are few who can. the language is that of mordor, which i will not utter here. in the common tongue, it says: “one ring to rule them all  one ring to find them  one ring to bring them all  and in the darkness bind them.” this is the one ring  forged by the dark lord sauron in the fires of mount doom. taken by isiidur from the hand of sauron himself. yes. for 60 years, the ring lay quiet in bilbo's keeping  prolonging his life, delaying old age. but no longer, frodo. evil is stirring in mordor. the ring has awoken. it's heard its master's call. no, frodo. the spirit of sauron endured. his life force is bound to the ring, and the ring survived. sauron has returned. his orcs have multiplied. his fortress at barad-dã»r is rebuilt in the land of mordor. sauron needs only this ring to cover all the lands in a second darkness. he is seeking it. seeking it — all his thought is bent on it. for the ring yearns above all else  to return to the hand of its master. they are one  the ring and the dark lord. frodo  he must never find it. there is one other who knew that bilbo had the ring. i looked everywhere for the creature gollum. but the enemy found him first. i don't know how long they tortured him. but amidst the endless screams and inane babble, they discerned two words: no, frodo. you cannot offer me this ring! don't tempt me, frodo! i dare not take it. not even to keep it safe. understand, frodo  i would use this ring from a desire to do good. but through me, it would wield a power too great and terrible to imagine. no no, it can't. you must leave. and leave quickly. get out of the shire. make for the village of bree. i'll be waiting for you  at the inn of the prancing pony. i don't know, frodo. i don't have any answers. i must see the head of my order. he is both wise and powerful. trust me, frodo. he'll know what to do. you'll have to leave the name of baggins behind you. that name is not safe outside the shire. travel only by day. and stay off the road. my dear frodo. hobbits really are amazing creatures. you can learn all that there is to know about their ways in a month. and yet, after a hundred years  they can still surprise you. get down. confound it all, samwise gamgee! have you been eavesdropping? a little late for trimming the verge, don't you think? what did you hear? speak! no? perhaps not. i've thought of a better use for you. come along, samwise. keep up. be careful, both of you. the enemy has many spies in his service: birds, beasts. is it safe? never put it on  for the agents of the dark lord will be drawn to its power. always remember, frodo  the ring is trying to get back to its master. it wants to be found. saruman. beyond any doubt. all these long years, it was in the shire. under my very nose. but we still have time. time enough to counter sauron if we act quickly. the eye of sauron. you know this? how? a palantir is a dangerous tool, saruman. they are not all accounted for, the lost seeing-stones. we do not know who else may be watching. the nine? they've reached the shire? frodo! tell me  friend  when did saruman the wise abandon reason for madness? you are in the house of elrond. and it is 10 o'clock in the morning on october 24th, if you want to know. yes, i'm here. and you're lucky to be here too. a few more hours and you would have been beyond our aid. but you have some strength in you, my dear hobbit. i am sorry, frodo. i was delayed. a friendship with saruman is not lightly thrown aside. there is only one lord of the ring. only one who can bend it to his will. and he does not share power. nothing, frodo. sam has hardly left your side. by the skills of lord elrond, you're beginning to mend. that wound will never fully heal. he will carry it the rest of his life. it is a burden he should never have had to bear. we can ask no more of frodo. his treachery runs deeper than you know. by foul craft, saruman has crossed orcs with goblin-men. he's breeding an army in the caverns of isengard. an army that can move in sunlight and cover great distance at speed. saruman is coming for the ring. it is in men that we must place our hope. there is one who could unite them. one who could reclaim the throne of gondor. “one ring to rule them all  one ring to find them  one ring to bring them all  and in the darkness bind them.” i do not ask your pardon, master elrond  for the black speech of mordor  may yet be heard  in every corner of the west! the ring is altogether evil. aragorn is right. we cannot use it. do you not understand? while you bicker amongst yourselves, sauron's power grows! none can escape it! you'll all be destroyed! i will help you bear this burden, frodo baggins  as long as it is yours to bear. the fellowship awaits the ring-bearer. left. we must hold to this course, west of the misty mountains, for 40 days. if our luck holds, the gap of rohan will still be open to us. from there, our road turns east to mordor. no gimli, i would not take the road through moria unless i had no other choice. spies of saruman. the passage south is being watched. we must take the pass of caradhras. it's saruman! no! sleep caradhras, be still, lie still, hold your wrath! let the ring-bearer decide. frodo? so be it. frodo, come and help an old man. how is your shoulder? and the ring? you feel its power growing, don't you? i've felt it too. you must be careful now. evil will be drawn to you from outside the fellowship. and, i fear, from within. you must trust yourself. trust your own strengths. there are many powers in this world  for good or for evil. some are greater than i am. and against some i have not yet been tested. yes, gimli, their own masters cannot find them if their secrets are forgotten. well, let's see. “moon-star” it mirrors only starlight and moonlight. it reads; “the doors of durin, lord of moria. speak, friend, and enter.” oh it's quite simple. if you are a friend, you speak the password and the doors will open. gate of the elves, open now for me! doorway of the dwarf-folk  listen to the word of my tongue. i once knew every spell in all the tongues of elves  men and orcs. knock your head against these doors, peregrin took! and if that does not shatter them  and i am allowed a little peace from foolish questions  i will try to find the opening words. gate of elves  listen to my word  threshold of dwarves! doorway of the dwarf-folk  oh, it's useless. mellon. into the mines! we now have but one choice. we must face the long dark of moria. be on your guard. there are older and fouler things than orcs  in the deep places of the world. quietly now. it's a four-day journey to the other side. let us hope that our presence may go unnoticed. the wealth of moria was not in gold  or jewels  but mithril. bilbo had a shirt of mithril rings that thorin gave him. yes. i never told him  but its worth was greater than the value of the shire. i have no memory of this place. it's gollum. he's been following us for three days. escaped  or was set loose. now the ring has brought him here. he will never be rid of his need for it. he hates and loves the ring, as he hates and loves himseif. smeagol's life is a sad story. yes, smeagol he was once called. before the ring found him. before it drove him mad. pity? it is pity that stayed bilbo's hand. many that live deserve death. some that die deserve life. can you give it to them, frodo? do not be too eager to deal out death and judgment. even the very wise cannot see all ends. my heart tells me that gollum has some part to play yet, for good or ill  before this is over. the pity of bilbo may rule the fate of many. so do all who live to see such times. but that is not for them to decide. all we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given to us. there are other forces at work in this world, frodo, besides the will of evil. bilbo was meant to find the ring. in which case, you also were meant to have it. and that is an encouraging thought. it's that way. no. but the air doesn't smell so foul down here. if in doubt, meriadoc, always follow your nose. let me risk a little more light. behold  the great realm and dwarf-city of dwarrowdelf. gimli! “here lies balin  son of fundin  lord of moria.” he is dead, then. it's as i feared. “they have taken the bridge and the second hall. we have barred the gates  but cannot hold them for long. the ground shakes. drums  drums in the deep. we cannot get out. a shadow moves in the dark. we cannot get out. they are coming.” fool of a took! throw yourself in next time, and rid us of your stupidity. i think there's more to this hobbit than meets the eye. to the bridge of khazad-dûm! this way! a balrog. a demon of the ancient world. this foe is beyond any of you. run! quickly! lead them on, aragorn. the bridge is near. do as i say! swords are no more use here. over the bridge! fly! you cannot pass! i am a servant of the secret fire, wielder of the flame of anor. the dark fire will not avail you, flame of udûn! go back to the shadow. you — shall not — pass! fly, you fools! so do all who live to see such times  but that is not for them to decide. all you have to decide  is what to do with the time that is given to you.  you cannot pass! i am a servant of the secret fire, wielder of the flame of anor. go back to the shadow. the dark fire will not avail you, flame of udun! you shall not pass! fly, you fools. you are tracking the footsteps of two young hobbits. they passed this way the day before yesterday. they met someone they did not expect. does that comfort you? i am saruman. or rather, saruman as he should have been. through fire  and water. from the lowest dungeon to the highest peak  i fought with the balrog of morgoth. until at last i threw down my enemy  and smote his ruin upon the mountainside. darkness took me  and i strayed out of thought and time. stars wheeled overhead  and every day was as long as a life age of the earth. but it was not the end. i felt life in me again. i've been sent back  until my task is done. gandalf? yes. that was what they used to call me. gandalf the grey. that was my name. i am gandalf the white. and i come back to you now  at the turn of the tide. one stage of your journey is over. another begins. we must travel to edoras with all speed. yes, and it will not be easily cured. it was more than mere chance that brought merry and pippin to fangorn. a great power has been sleeping here for many long years. the coming of merry and pippin will be like the falling of small stones  that starts an avalanche in the mountains. a thing is about to happen that has not happened since the elder days. the ents are going to wake up  and find that they are strong. so stop your fretting, master dwarf. merry and pippin are quite safe. in fact, they are far safer than you are about to be. shadowfax. he is the lord of all horses  and has been my friend through many dangers. the veiling shadow that glowers in the east takes shape. sauron will suffer no rival. from the summit of barad-dur, his eye watches ceaselessly. but he is not so mighty yet that he is above fear. doubt ever gnaws at him. the rumor has reached him. the heir of numenor still lives. sauron fears you, aragorn. he fears what you may become. and so he'll strike hard and fast at the world of men. he will use his puppet saruman to destroy rohan. war is coming. rohan must defend itself, and therein lies our first challenge  for rohan is weak and ready to fall. the king's mind is enslaved, it's an old device of saruman's. his hold over king theoden is now very strong. sauron and saruman are tightening the noose. but for all their cunning  we have one advantage. the ring remains hidden. and that we should seek to destroy it  has not yet entered their darkest dreams. and so the weapon of the enemy is moving towards mordor  in the hands of a hobbit. each day brings it closer to the fires of mount doom. we must trust now in frodo. everything depends upon speed  and the secrecy of his quest. do not regret your decision to leave him. frodo must finish this task alone. did he? did he, indeed? good. yes, very good. edoras and the golden hall of meduseld. there dwells theoden, king of rohan  whose mind is overthrown. saruman's hold over king theoden is now very strong. be careful what you say. do not look for welcome here. you would not part an old man from his walking stick. the courtesy of your hall is somewhat lessened of late  theoden king. be silent. keep your forked tongue behind your teeth. i have not passed through fire and death  to bandy crooked words with a witless worm. theoden  son of thengel  too long have you sat in the shadows. hearken to me! i release you  from the spell. i will draw you, saruman, as poison is drawn from a wound. you did not kill me  you will not kill him. be gone. breathe the free air again, my friend. your fingers would remember their old strength better  if they grasped your sword. theodred's death was not of your making. he was strong in life. his spirit will find its way to the halls of your fathers. be thou well. go thou, théodred, go thou. this is but a taste of the terror that saruman will unleash. all the more potent for he is driven now by fear of sauron. ride out and meet him head on. draw him away from your women and children. you must fight. then what is the king's decision? helm's deep. there is no way out of that ravine. theoden is walking into a trap. he thinks he's leading them to safety. what they will get is a massacre. theoden has a strong will, but i fear for him. i fear for the survival of rohan. he will need you before the end, aragorn. the people of rohan will need you. the defenses have to hold. the grey pilgrim. that's what they used to call me. three hundred lives of men i've walked this earth, and now i have no time. with luck, my search will not be in vain. look to my coming at first light on the fifth day. at dawn, look to the east. look to my coming at first light on the fifth day. at dawn  look to the east. theoden king stands alone. sauron's wrath will be terrible, his retribution swift. the battle for helm's deep is over. the battle for middle-earth is about to begin. all our hopes now lie with two little hobbits  somewhere in the wilderness.  hobbits. be careful. even in defeat, saruman is dangerous. no. we need him alive. we need him to talk. your treachery has already cost many lives. thousands more are now at risk. but you could save them, saruman. you were deep in the enemy's counsel. no. come down, saruman  and your life will be spared. saruman  your staff is broken. saruman! you were deep in the enemy's counsel. tell us what you know! send word to all our allies  and to every corner of middle-earth that still stands free. the enemy moves against us. we need to know where he will strike. peregrin took! i'll take that, my lad. quickly, now. no word. nothing. do we know that? that frodo is alive. yes. yes, he's alive. fool of a took! look at me. look at me. what did you see? minas tirith? is that what you saw? and what did you tell him? speak! what did you tell him about frodo and the ring? there was no lie in pippin's eyes. a fool  but an honest fool he remains. he told sauron nothing of frodo and the ring. we've been strangely fortunate. pippin saw in the palantir a glimpse of the enemy's plan. sauron moves to strike the city of minas tirith. his defeat at helm's deep showed our enemy one thing. he knows the heir of elendil has come forth. men are not as weak as he supposed. there is courage still, strength enough perhaps to challenge him. sauron fears this. he will not risk the peoples of middle-earth uniting under one banner. he will raze minas tirith to the ground  before he sees a king return to the throne of men. if the beacons of gondor are lit, rohan must be ready for war. no! they will be. you must come to minas tirith by another road. follow the river. look to the black ships. understand this: things are now in motion that cannot be undone. i ride for minas tirith  and i won't be going alone. of all the inquisitive hobbits, peregrin took, you are the worst. hurry! hurry! three days' ride, as the nazgul flies. and you better hope we don't have one of those on our tail. run, shadowfax. show us the meaning of haste. we've just passed into the realm of gondor. minas tirith. city of kings. make way! yes, the white tree of gondor. the tree of the king. lord denethor, however, is not king. he is a steward only, a caretaker of the throne. now listen carefully. lord denethor is boromir's father. to give him news of his beloved son's death would be most unwise. and do not mention frodo or the ring. and say nothing of aragorn either. in fact, it's better if you don't speak at all, peregrin took. hail denethor, son of ecthelion, lord and steward of gondor. i come with tidings in this dark hour, and with counsel. pippin. get up. my lord, there will be a time to grieve for boromir  but it is not now. war is coming. the enemy is on your doorstep. as steward, you are charged  with the defense of this city. where are gondor's armies? you still have friends. you are not alone in this fight. send word to theoden of rohan. light the beacons. authority is not given to you to deny the return of the king, steward. come. all has turned to vain ambition. he would even use his grief as a cloak. a thousand years this city has stood. now, at the whim of a madman, it will fall. and the white tree, the tree of the king  will never bloom again. they guard it because they have hope. a faint and fading hope that one day it will flower. that a king will come and this city will be as it once was  before it fell into decay. the old wisdom borne out of the west was forsaken. kings made tombs more splendid than the houses of the living  and counted the old names of their descent  dearer than the names of their sons. childless lords sat in aged halls, musing on heraldry  or in high, cold towers, asking questions of the stars. and so the people of gondor fell into ruin. the line of kings failed. the white tree withered. the rule of gondor was given over to lesser men. yes, there it lies. this city has dwelt ever in the sight of its shadow. this is not the weather of the world. this is a device of sauron's making. a broil of fume he sends ahead of his host. the orcs of mordor have no love of daylight  so he covers the face of the sun  to ease their passage along the road to war. when the shadow of mordor reaches this city  it will begin. oh, it's too late for that, peregrin. there's no leaving this city. help must come to us. you're in the service of the steward now. you'll have to do as you're told, peregrin took. ridiculous hobbit. guard of the citadel. thank you. yes. it's the deep breath before the plunge. there never was much hope. just a fool's hope. our enemy is ready. his full strength's gathered. not only orcs, but men as well. legions of haradrim from the south  mercenaries from the coast. all will answer mordor's call. this will be the end of gondor as we know it. here the hammer stroke will fall hardest. if the river is taken, if the garrison at osgiliath falls  the last defense of this city will be gone. sauron has yet to reveal his deadliest servant  the one who will lead mordor's armies in war. the one they say no living man can kill. the witch king of angmar. you've met him before. he stabbed frodo on weathertop. he is the lord of the nazgul  the greatest of the nine. minas morgul is his lair. we come to it at last. the great battle of our time. the board is set. the pieces are moving. peregrin took, my lad, there is a task now to be done. another opportunity for one of the shire-folk to prove their great worth. you must not fail me. amon din hope is kindled. foreseen and done nothing. faramir? this is not the first halfling to have crossed your path. where? when? and then the pass of cirith ungol. faramir, tell me everything. tell me all you know. courage is the best defense that you have now. faramir! faramir! your father's will has turned to madness. do not throw away your life so rashly. your father loves you, faramir. he will remember it before the end. prepare for battle! hurry, men! to the wall! defend the wall! return to your posts! send these foul beasts into the abyss. hold them back! do not give in to fear. stand to your posts! fight! not at the towers! aim for the trolls! kill the trolls! bring them down! fight them back! peregrin took! go back to the citadel! this is no place for a hobbit. guard of the citadel, indeed. now, back, up the hill. quickly. quick! back to the gate! hurry! steady. steady. you are soldiers of gondor. no matter what comes through that gate, you will stand your ground. volley! the city is breached! fall back! to the second level! get the women and children out! get them out! retreat! fight! fight to the last man! fight for your lives! up! quickly! go back to the abyss. fall into the nothingness that awaits you and your master. stay this madness! so passes denethor, son of ecthelion. end? no, the journey doesn't end here. death is just another path  one that we all must take. the grey rain curtain of this world rolls back  and all turns to silver glass. and then you see it. white shores  and beyond. a far green country  under a swift sunrise. no. no, it isn't. frodo has passed beyond my sight. the darkness is deepening. it's only a matter of time. he has suffered a defeat, yes but  behind the walls of mordor, our enemy is regrouping. because 10,000 orcs now stand between frodo and mount doom. i've sent him to his death. sauron will suspect a trap. he will not take the bait. we do not come to treat with sauron  faithless and accursed. tell your master this: the armies of mordor must disband. he is to depart these lands, never to return. silence. silence! now come the days of the king. may they be blessed. farewell  my brave hobbits. my work is now finished. here at last, on the shores of the sea  comes the end of our fellowship. i will not say, “do not weep”  for not all tears are an evil. it is time, frodo.