BLACK CONTINUES ELVISH SINGING A WOMAN'S VOICE IS whispering, tinged with SADNESS and REGRET FLICKERING FIRELIGHT. The NOLDORIN FORGE in EREGION. MOLTEN GOLD POURS from the lip of an IRON LADLE. THREE RINGS, each set with a single GEM, are received by the HIGH ELVES-GALADRIEL, GIL-GALAD and CIRDAN. SEVEN RINGS held aloft in triumph by the DWARF LORDS. NINE RINGS clutched tightly by the KINGS OF MEN as if holding-close a precious secret. An ancient PARCHMENT MAP of MIDDLE EARTH moving slowly across the MAP as if drawn by an unseen force the CAMERA closes in on a PLACE NAME MORDOR. SAURON forging the ONE RING in the CHAMBERS of SAMMATH NAUR. THE ONE RING falls through SPACE and into flames. A GREAT SHADOW falls across the MAP closing in around the realm of GONDOR. SCREAMING VILLAGERS, MEN, WOMEN, AND CHILDREN, RUN from their homes, pursued by ARMIES OF HIDEOUS ORCS. THE BATTLE OF DAGORLAD THE ELF LORD, ELROND, commands rank after rank of ELVEN ARCHERS ORCS RETREATING before the ARMY of the LAST ALLIANCE ELENDIL holds aloft the great sword NARSIL. THE HUGE, DARK FIGURE OF SARURON, bearing the ONE RING on his finger, looms over the field of battle. SAURON lays waste to the armies of the LAST ALLIANCE. With desperate courage, ELENDIL leads a charge THE BLACK MACE OF SAURON LASHES OUT ELENDIL'S body falls like a crumpled rag doll ISILDUR cradles the body of his father in his arms. The SHADOW OF SAURON falls over him. ISILDUR snatches up the BROKEN BLADE OF NARSIL The BLADE severs SAURON'S FINGERS AND THE ONE RING FLIES from his body. GONE VAPORIZED. ISILDUR picks up the SEVERED FINGER and removes the ONE RING transfixed. SUDDENLY. ARROWS FLY. They are ambushed by ORCS ISILDUR SCREAMS. ISILDUR MATERIALIZES UNDER WATER as THE RING slips slowly from his finger. Ripples of LIGHT play across ISILDUR'S PALE FACE he is DEAD. THE RING falls through the MURKY WATERS of the RIVER ANDUIN. The waters of the ANDUIN RIVER lie dark and undisturbed. SILT SWIRLS A THIN WHITE HAND reaches down grasping the RING. THE THIN WHITE HAND opens to reveal one ring. MIST SHROUDED MOUNTAINS. THE GLOOM of a MOUNTAIN CAVERN a MURKY POOL of WATER in the DARKNESS the SHADOWY OUTLINE of an EMACIATED FIGURE. Bathed in COLD MOONLIGHT, the WORLD lies DARK and STILL the unsettled quiet before the storm. unseen by its KEEPER THE RING falls to the MUDDY FLOOR of a MOUNTAIN TUNNEL. FUMBLING in the dark, a SMALL HAND closes over the RING. A YOUNGISH LOOKING BILBO BAGGINS peers down at what lies in his hand PERPLEXED by what he has found. SUDDENLY. A VOICE SCREAMS ITS ANGUISH RINGING through the COLD, DANK TUNNELS. Frightened Bilbo quickly POCKETS the ONE RING and hurries on. THE CAMERA SOARS AWAY FROM THE MOUNTAINS. MOVING FASTER AND FASTER THEIR DARK GREEN FORESTS AND JAGGED WHITE PEAKS RECEDING INTO THE SHROUD OF MIST TWO HOBBIT FEET resting on a small rock rising out of the LONG, OVERGROWN GRASSES a Figure lies beneath the dappled sunlight of an old tree. White flowers are scattered among the Well seeded grasses. An idyllic setting at the end of a long hot summer the figure is reading a book. In the distance, growing louder over the Gentle clip clop of an approaching cart and horse can be heard the HUMMING OF A DEEP VOICE to the tune of "The Road Goes Ever On and On " SUDDENLY. The figure in the grass sits up looking straight at camera is a handsome young HOBBIT, with dark curly hair and deep blue eyes. This is FRODO BAGGINS his EYES alight with EXCITEMENT. Tossing away the long stem of grass in his mouth, Frodo runs off. The cart rattles along a leafy lane, driven by a stooped figure in Grey. INTERCUT WITH SHOTS OF FRODO RUNNING CAREERING DOWN A HILL JUMPING OVER LOGS DODGING TREE BRANCHES. The shambling OLD PONY snorts and rears as SUDDENLY FRODO appears on a bank above the cart. GANDALF glowers at the young Hobbit. They look at each other a moment then both start laughing as FRODO'S face breaks into a smile and he leaps on to the front seat of the cart. Next to Gandalf, we see how small Hobbits are Frodo is 3 foot 6 inches tall. The cart rattles past a FIELD LUPIN being tended by HOBBITS. Gandalf looks down at Frodo, a twinkle in his eye. The cart rattles over a Stone bridge towards a Busy Hobbit Marketplace. Gandalf as he surveys the peaceful scene before him. Hobbits look up exclaiming in wonder and excitement as the cart bearing Gandalf and Frodo rolls past the Green Dragon Inn towards The party field. Where scOrcs of Hobbits are busy preparing for the big night. Frodo shoots a knowing look, as Gandalf averts his eyes. ODO PROUDFOOT looks up as the Cart passes by, deeply suspicious. As the cart rattles into the small village of Hobbiton a quaint rustic settlement, nestled amongst rolling green hills and large trees. The Hobbits live in Hobbit Holes neat burrows dug into the grassy hillside, with round doors and cute front gardens. Excited children, chasing after the cart. Gandalf ignOrcs the children's cries. The children stand deflated, watching Gandalf disappear up the lane. At that moment spinning balls of bright color suddenly leap out of the cart, fizzing over the heads of the delighted children. Gandalf smiling to himself, well pleased with his joke. ODO PROUDFOOT is unable to suppress a chuckle. Frodo stands up in the cart as Gandalf reigns in the horse. GANDALF'S CART pulls up outside the gate to BAG END a particularly fine example of a Hobbit hole, with a large round front door set into a grassy hillside. There is a sign on the gate which reads "NO ADMITTANCE EXCEPT ON PARTY BUSINESS." Gandalf strides up to the garden path of Bag End. He raises his staff and raps on the front door a voice calls out Suddenly the door opens and BILBO BAGGINS stands before him. He is a HOBBIT OF INDERTIMINATE AGE, with a mischievous Twinkle in his eye. Wearing a dashing brocade waist coat, he looks every inch the eccentric gentleman. Gandalf drops to his knee to embrace his old friend. Gandalf looks at him more keenly. Bilbo leads Gandalf into Bag End cozy and cluttered with souvenirs of Bilbo's travels. Gandalf has to stoop to avoid hitting his head on the low ceiling. Bilbo hangs up Gandalf's hat on a peg and trots off down the hall. Bilbo disappears into the kitchen as Gandalf looks around enjoying the familiarity of Bag End he turns, knocking his head on the light and then walking into the wooden beam. He groans. Gandalf stops in front of a framed map, charred in one corner it is Thorin's map of the Lonely Mountain, Gandalf smiles to himself. Bilbo jumps, a half eaten pork pie in his hand, as Gandalf mysteriously appears behind him. Bilbo Baggins, you open this door I know you're in there. Gandalf watches, amused as Bilbo tries to hide. Bilbo's fingers close around his waistcoat pocket gripping a small, unseen object. Gandalf and Bilbo are sitting on the Bag End porch. Below them, final preparations are being made on the Party field. Bilbo strikes a match and lights his pipe. Bilbo blows a perfect smoke ring and watches it rise into the air. A tiny sailing ship with masts and sails glides through the Center of Bilbo's smoke ring. BOOM. A FIREWORK explodes into the night sky high above Hobbiton in the shape of a great green tree with unfolding branches. with glowing flowers as they rain down from the branches evaporating just above the up turned faces of the delighted party-goers 144 Hobbits, feasting and drinking Carts of beer and wine are scattered about, and the tables are piled high with steaming scones and savories. Gandalf hurries about, lighting fireworks with a blue spark that dances magically from his staff Bilbo is greeting visitors. Frodo and SAM sit at a table drinking ale Frodo notices Sam's eyes keep flicking to another pretty Hobbit, Rosie Cotton, sitting some distance away. Sam goes to drain his glass suddenly it is snatched out of his hands as Frodo thrusts him into the middle of a passing throng of dancers. SAM'S HORRIFIED FACE as he is Swept away. Frodo laughs and finishes Sam's beer. Gandalf as he sets alight a particularly spectacular firework that draws gasps of admiration from the party guests. Bilbo is relating stories of his adventure to a group of young hobbit children. A LITTLE HOBBIT GIRL'S upturned face her eyes growing larger and larger. STUNNED GASPS from his young Audience greet his astonishing feat. MERRY AND PIPPIN, two mischievous Young Hobbits in their late teens. Pippin scrambles on to the back of Gandalf's wagon, snatching up a small firework Merry is holding out the big rocket he looks aghast at the fizzing fuse that Pippin has just lit. Merry fearfully tosses the Rocket to Pippin. The fuse sizzles angrily. Pippin attempts to throw the fizzing rocket back to Merry. WHOOSH. The two hobbits are suddenly blown off their feet in a shower of sparks as the rocket blasts off with frightening power. The ROCKET ZOOMS over the Party It suddenly bursts apart, forming the shape of a great red golden Dragon. Fire gushes from its nostrils as it turns back and Flies low towards the startled crowd. Frodo watches the Fireworks Dragon with alarm but Bilbo is oblivious to the Panicking crowd and impending danger. FRODO As he hurriedly pulls Bilbo to the ground, just as the dragon roars a few feet above their heads like a flaming express train. Hobbits dive to the ground, tables overturn, tents collapse, food flies everywhere. The fireworks dragon turns a somersault and explodes over the hills with a deafening bang. This gets the biggest Cheer of the night. MERRY AND PIPPIN, clothes and hair smoking. LARGE HANDS suddenly clamp down on Merry and Pippin's ears. Gandalf looking DOWN STERNLY. MERRY AND PIPPIN Are leaning over a barrel, washing dishes in soapy water with Gandalf sitting nearby, smoking his pipe and sipping an ale. Cries of "SPEECH. SPEECH" erupt from the party. Bilbo stepping on a stool he bows in gratitude at the applause. A HOBBIT WITH PARTICULARLY BIG FEET SCATTERED CLAPPING as the guests try to work out if that was a compliment or not. FRODO AND GANDALF smiling to themselves. Bilbo a strange hum seems to fill his head. A bead of sweat rolls down his brow. Bilbo's hand pulls something out of his waistcoat pocket and holds it behind his back. Bilbo instantly vanishes. The party explodes into an uproar the crowd leaps to its feet. FRODO staring at the empty stool in disbelief. The party is still in an excited uproar some 50 yards away as we pan across a moonlit lane to the front door of Bag End. Door opens, pulled by an invisible hand. The door quietly closes Bilbo materializes as he pulls a plain gold ring off his finger. Bilbo laughs as he tosses the ring in the air, then places it in his pocket. Bilbo emerges from the passage, carrying a walking stick. He finds Gandalf looming over him. Bilbo he gives Gandalf a look and nods toward the mantelpiece. GANDALF LOOKS DOWN AT BILBO WITH RISING CONCERN. Gandalf rises to his full height, his eyes flash, his shadow suddenly seems to fill the room Bilbo lifts his knapsack and heads for the front door. Bilbo hesitates reaches into his pocket. Bilbo pulls out the ring he stares at it in his palm. With all his will power, Bilbo allows the ring to slowly slide off his palm and drop to the floor. The tiny ring lands with a heavy thud on the wooden floor. Bilbo staggering out of Bag end he braces himself in the night air, Pale and Trembling, as if his loss of the ring has weakened him. Gandalf steps up behind. Bilbo walks away from Bag End, disappearing into the night, softly singing "The Road goes on and on." THE RING Glinting on the floor Gandalf circles around it, a Puzzled look on his face. Gandalf slowly reaches for the ring. His fingers barely touch the ring the creepy Hum rises on the soundtrack. Gandalf is sitting in front of the fire, with his pipe staring into the flickering flames. Frodo rushes into Bag End he stops and picks up the ring at his feet. Gandalf continues staring into the fire, as if locked in thought. Gandalf turns his eyes locking onto the ring in Frodo's fingers. Gandalf sorts hurriedly through Bilbo's papers. Gandalf holds out the envelope Frodo drops the ring into it. Gandolf seals the envelope with wax. He hands it to Frodo. Gandalf is already at the door, he turns to Frodo. Gandalf hurries out the door leaving FRODO standing alone in the Bag End. THE ENVELOPE The camera pushes in the hum of the ring comes up on the soundtrack. The camera pushes through the white paper to the ring beneath the hum the whispered murmur of BLACK SPEECH can be heard. The jagged ruins of" BARAD-DUR. THE DARK TOWER. TEASING THE HUGE DARK TOWER OF BARAD-DUR is being rebuilt. Thousands of ORCS crawl over the surface, hauling stone and iron up the towering heights. MOUNT DOOM A HUGE, BILLOWING CLOUD OF BLACK FILTH grows and spreads across the red streaked sky casting a shadowy pall over the nightmarish landscape. NINE BLACK RIDERS burst out of Minas Morgul and charge toward Camera. A LONE HORSEMAN gallops to the crest of a hill on the west road. The main highway south to Minas Tirith he looks toward the saw toothed mountains of Mordor  seeping out across the blood red sky, his face grave. He spurs his horse on. GANDALF making is way down into the lower depths of the Citidel. Pages flipping as Gandalf searches ancient scrolls and books placed high on a wooden table. His eyes settle on one old parchment. He murmurs hurriedly to himself, reading. ISILDUR, TRIUMPHANT, REACHES FOR THE ONE RING, HIS EYES FIXATED ON IT. ELVISH LETTERING MARKS ON THE FADED OLD DOCUMENT IN GANDALF'S HAND. FARMER MAGGOT is chopping wood in his garden SNORTING HORSE NOSTRILS as the shadow of a black rider looms over a Hobbit House. Terrified, FARMER MAGGOT cowers in his doorway FANG, his dog, Whimpers and backs away. The BLACK RIDER GALLOPS AWAY AT SPEED ROSIE COTTON bids the last of the Patron's "Goodnight" Sam meets her eyes for a moment as he and Frodo leave the inn. FRODO FAREWELLS SAM outside Bag End, and heads towards the front door. Creepy POV from inside Bag end Frodo coming up the path. FRODO enters Bag End he immediately Pauses, sensing that something is amiss. All is quiet Frodo peers uneasily into the darkened living room. SUDDENLY. A large figure looms out of the shadows, reaching for Frodo. Frodo lets out a startled cry, pulls himself free and spins around to face his Assailant. Gandalf steps into a shaft of moonlight. Paranoia blazes in his eyes. His clothes are dirty and ragged from much traveling. Hair and beard much longer an unkempt. Frodo pulls the envelope out of an old chest. Gandalf, suspicious, Alert. Without a word, Gandalf takes the envelope and tosses it into the fireplace. Flames instantly consume the envelope revealing the ring, as it sinks into the red hot embers. Gandalf reaches into the fire with a pair of tongs he lifts the ring out. Gandalf drops the ring into Frodo's hand he reacts to its weight. GANDALF STILL TENSE Mordor? In the common tongue it says, "One ring to rule them all, One ring to find them, One ring to bring them all, and in the darkness bind them." The ring lies on Frodo's simple kitchen table. FRODO STUNNED emanates from the Ring. Frodo looks at Gandalf, each knowing the other has heard it. THE RING lies between them on the table. FRODO hurriedly entering the living room. Gandalf looks at Frodo, sadly. A teasing Glimpse of Gollum being tortured by the Orcs. The wretched creature screams in pain. FRODO'S HORRIFIED FACE. On a dark country lane, a Hobbit bounder lifts his watch lantern in alarm. Out of the darkness thunder two BLACK RIDERS A LETHAL SWORD swings down at the small Hobbit bounder. FRODO thrusts the ring at Gandalf. THE RING IN FRODO'S HAND. THE RING IN FRODO'S CLENCHED HAND. FRODO throwing clothes into a knapsack Gandalf watches him, making plans. Frodo is preparing to leave. Gandalf looks at the young Hobbit, moved by his courage. SUDDENLY. A SOUND from outside. GANDALF FREEZES he moves quietly towards the window, eyes wide with tension. He raises his staff above the window, and slams it down on the intruder. THERE IS A YELP OF PAIN. Gandalf hauls a small figure into the room SAM GAMGEE sprawls across the floor. He looks up in terror as Gandalf looms over him. FRODO SMILES HOBBITON shrouded in a white veil of MIST. To reveal Gandalf, Frodo and Sam hurrying across a ploughed field, away from Hobbiton. Gandalf leads his Horse Frodo and Sam are carrying knapsacks. Gandalf leads Frodo and Sam under the cover of Woods. Gandalf takes Frodo to one side. FRODO NODS he pats his pocket. FRODO AND SAM hiking over the gentle Shire Countryside wading through a shallow stream heating a kettle over a small fire clambering over stone walls. Sam stops short taking stock of his surroundings. Sam looks back from where they came. FRODO gives Sam a pat on the shoulder. Sam takes a deep breath and steps forward. SAM'S brown, furry foot hits the ground. FRODO IS SMILING. Frodo and Sam continue their journey. Gandalf is galloping along the outskirts of the ancient forest of Fangorn. Nestled in a basin at the foot of the distant Misty Mountains, the tall black tower of Orthanc is clearly visible Gandalf gallops through the gate, into the fortress of ISENGARD a great ring-wall of stone, a mile from rim to rim, encloses beautiful trees and gardens, watered by streams that flow down from the mountains. The strange tower of Orthanc hewn from a solid pillar of black obsidian rises up in the center of the Isengard Circle. Gandalf arrives at the foot of the Orthanc Stairs. SARUMAN, THE WHITE WIZARD he sweeps down the Orthanc stairs. Gandalf moves quickly towards him, grimy and weary from his long ride. Gandalf and Saruman walk slowly between the beautiful trees of Isengard, Saruman's clean, white robe contrasts with Gandalf's dusty grey robes. Saruman and Gandalf are seated in a small, cluttered room to the side of the cavernous central chamber. Gandalf and Saruman stride through Orthanc toward a stone plinth on which a sphere like shape is draped with a cloth. Saruman lifts the cloth to reveal the Palantir. FLASH A FIERY EYE. Saruman sits upon his throne. Gandalf backs away and turns to run to the door horrified as the doors suddenly slam shut. Gandalf slowly turns to Saruman a look of dawning horror. At that moment Gandalf is suddenly blasted across the room. He slams against the wall pinned there by some unseen force. With sudden effort, Gandalf wrenches himself off the wall and swings his staff on Saruman blasting him off his feet. Gandalf and Saruman battle, powerful blasts throwing them across the room. SARUMAN SCREAMS, EYES BLAZING. Gandalf's staff is suddenly wrenched from his grasp it flies across the chamber into Saruman's hand. Gandalf is flung to the floor. Gandalf is breathing hard on the floor, his eyes look into the madness of Saruman Commanding two staffs, Saruman sends Gandalf into a sickening spin. Gandalf tumbles towards the top of the chamber as if falling in reverse. the roof of Orthanc rockets toward camera. Frodo and Sam walking along a country lane which borders Farmer Maggot's Fields. Sam is looking up Frodo has disappeared around a corner in the lane. Merry, Pippin, and Frodo picking themselves up a variety of vegetables have scattered everywhere. Merry gives Sam a large cabbage. A large pitchfork can be seen racing towards them along the Hedgerow angry shouts from Farmer Maggot. Merry and Pippin hurriedly gather their booty and race away with Frodo and Sam on their heels. The BAYING OF LARGE DOGS sounds. Frodo, Sam, and Merry and Pippin tumble head over heels down a bank, onto a dark, wooded road. A winded Pippin, his face inches away from a large pile of Horse droppings. Frodo picks himself up and looks around quickly. Pulls a LARGE CARROT, almost broken through in the middle, out from his back pocket. Pippin has spied something under the trees on the far side of the road. SMALL, brown mushrooms growing amongst the Loamy undergrowth. Sam, Merry, and Pippin race toward the mushrooms. Frodo is tense and watchful. He realizes they are on a wooded road. Scattered leaves rise into the air Whirling down the road as if blown by an invisible wind. SUDDENLY THE SOUND OF HORSES HOOVES. A long drawn WAIL comes down the wind, like the cry of some evil and lonely creature. Sam grabs Merry and Pippin as the Hobbits quickly scramble down the bank, hiding under a mossy log. THE SOUND OF HOOVES is close A sinister MOUNTED RINGWRATH steps into view hooded and faceless, mounted on a huge snarling black horse with insane eyes . Frodo freezes in terror. The RINGWRAITH pauses right beside their hiding place he sits very still with his head bowed, listening. From inside the hood comes a sniffing noise as if he is trying to catch an elusive scent his head turning from side to side. FRODO Beads of sweat gather on his brow. The ringwraith suddenly slides off his horse, leaning over the mossy log, peering suspiciously into the woods. FRODO He is drawing the ring out of his pocket, with trembling hands his face fevered and sweating as if in the grip of some terrible INTERNAL STRUGGLE. The SOUND OF SNIFFING intensifies as the ringwraith darts his head from side to side like a bird of party. FRODO SQUEEZING HIS EYES SHUT. QUICK PSYCHIC BLASTS. AND EVIL DARK TOWER A GREAT EYE A BURST OF FLAME. SAM LOOKING AT FRODO WITH CONCERN Merry desperately hurls the mushrooms across the road the ringwraith spins around at the sound, and darts to the far side of the road with frightening speed. Frodo instantly slumps as if a PSYCHIC LINK had been broken Frodo is staring, a look of shock on his face at the ring lying in the palm of his hand. Frodo, Sam, Merry, and Pippin hurry through the trees slipping and sliding on the muddy ground. Merry moves past pippin, toward Frodo, watching intently Sam keeps looking around nervously. The SILHOUETTE OF A BLACK RIDER looms against the skyline. The Four Hobbits sprawled on the ground, holding their breath. The BLACK RIDER turns and departs. Merry looks at his friend realizing Frodo is in deep trouble. The Hobbits break cover. SUDDENLY, A RINGWRAITH bursts out of the forest TOWARD THEM. The Hobbits run THE RINGWRAITH SHRIEKS. FRODO, SAM, MERRY AND PIPPIN, are running towards the wide, placid Brandywine river and the FERRY. STOMPING HOOVES SNARLING HORSES. Four RINGWRAITHS are speeding through the Fog converging on the FERRY CROSSING. The HOBBITS stampede across the Wharf and Tumble onto the Ferry. Frodo races across the Wooden Wharf, followed by the ringwraiths. He leaps into the Ferry. HOOVES THUNDER DOWN THE WOODEN WHARF. Sam and Merry shove off with the poles the ferry slides out into the river, just as the ringwraiths arrive. They pull up on the end of the wharf shrieking with rage. The Hobbits cover their ears. The Ringwraiths wheel their horses towards the north and Gallop away along the river bank, quickly disappearing into the fog. Lights of Bree a small village of stone and half timbered houses nestled against a low wooded hill. A thick hedge surrounds the village a great gate bars the western entrance. FRODO, SAM, MERRY AND PIPPIN approaching the gatehouse wild eyes, ragged, and out of breath. A SURLY GATEKEEPER glances down at them. The gatekeeper swings his lantern onto the hobbits, bathing them in an uncomfortable yellow spotlight. The Hobbits gratefully enter Bree the gatekeeper eyeing them curiously in the lantern light. The tall BREE FOLK loom over the nervous little hobbits as Frodo, Sam, Merry and Pippin make their way through the Narrow Streets. Tall buildings tower above them lights glow dimly from behind thick curtains. The sign of the "PRANCING PONY INN" Frodo, Sam, Merry, and Pippin hurry toward it. Frodo, Sam, Merry and Pippin come rushing in. Frodo attracts the INN KEEPERS'S attention. the noise, smokey Inn. It is dimly lit, cheifly from a blazing log fire and crowded with a mixture of BIG FOLK, LOCAL HOBBITS, and a couple of dwarfs. Frodo, Sam, Merry and Pippin are sitting at a table against the wall clearly trying to remain Quiet and inconspicuous Sam can't help himself he keeps casting nervous glances around. Merry ploinks himself down at a table, carrying a very large mug of beer. Sam watches Pippin rise unsteadily to his feet and head to the bar. A COUPLE OF SWARTHY MEN leaning against the bar glance at Frodo, then quickly look away. Sam indicates a BROODING STRANGER who sits alone at a table in the far corner, smoking a curiously carved long stemmed pipe, peering from beneath a travel stained cowl with gleaming eyes. Frodo gestures to Butterbur. BENEATH TABLE FRODO'S fingers are nervously TOYING WITH THE RING. FRODO Sweat runs down his brow. The Strange hum of the Ring spills into the Soundtrack. Baggins Baggins  a creepy whisper seems to fill Frodo's head sound that dissolves into Pippin's loud voice PIPPIN sitting at the bar, chatting with Locals. Frodo leaps to his feet and pushes his way towards the bar. Frodo grabs Pippin's sleeve, spilling his beer. Pippin pushes Frodo away he stumbles backwards, and falls to the floor. At that instant, the Inn goes silent and all the attention turns to Frodo. The ring in agonizing Slow motion we watch as it seems to hang in the air for a split second then crashes down onto his out stretched finger. FRODO VANISHES. There is a sharp intake of breath followed by total silence. The RINGWRAITHS turn sharply in their saddles Instantly aware that the ring is being worn. They spur their horses towards the distant lights of Bree. Sam looks sick Pippin instantly sobers, realizing his folly the brooding stranger frowns and the inn erupts into excited babble. FRODO as he finds himself in the TWILIGHT WORLD of the ring THE EXCITED CROWD ARE suddenly moving in slow motion distorted voices a weird photographic negative quality. FRODO is moving in real time against the slow motion background. He suddenly clutches his head as he is hit with quick images of a GREAT EYE. AN EVIL CAT-LIKE EYE, wreathed in flames. VOICE OF SAURON There is no life here in the void only cold only death FRODO is terrified. He rolls under a table, desperately pulling the ring from his finger. FRODO MATERIALIZES into the real world. AT THAT MOMENT A LARGE HAND reaches under the table and Grabs Frodo by the collar, and DRAGS HIM AWAY. Frodo is roughly pushed against the wall. The Brooding stranger looms over him. Frodo is pushed into the Hobbit's room by Strider. The door bursts open and Sam, Merry and Pippin appear on the doorway. Sam is Squaring off with is fists, Merry brandishes a candlestick, and Pippin a chair. STRIDER SHEATHS his sword, a slight smile playing on his lips. The gate keeper comes out of his Lodgings with a lantern a look of fear on his face. He approaches the closed gate with great apprehension. The Gatekeeper peers out of his Peephole. CRASH. The gate crashed down on the gatekeeper as four RINGWRAITHS ride into Bree. The four RINGWRAITHS fly done the empty streets, like horsemen of the apocalypse. the front door FLIES OPEN. The FOUR RINGWRAITHS rush into the PRANCING PONY with WICKED SWORDS DRAWN. BUTTERBUR hiding behind his bar trembling and sweating in TERROR. MERRY SNORING SOFTLY ON HIS PILLOW. PIPPIN stirs slightly, then settles back to sleep. the door creaks open THE FOUR RINGWRAITHS silently slide into the Hobbit's room. The LOOM above each bed, raising their SHINING SWORDS ABOVE THE SLEEPING HOBBITS. Sam's eyes open wide. In unison, the RINGWRAITS STAB THE HOBBITS, in a Slashing, hacking frenzy. Strider is grimly listening to the sounds from his room. the RINGWRAITHS step back from the slashed beds in triumph. a hacked blanket is pulled back to reveal nothing but a shredded pillow. The RINGWRAITHS SHRIEK WITH RAGE Sam sits up with a start. Another shredded pillow is revealed. More Shrieks of rage. PIPPIN AND MERRY wake with a start. Sam, Merry, and Pippin have been sleeping on Strider's bed. Frodo stands next to Strider by the window, peering out nervously as furious Ringwraith screeches echo across the courtyard from the Hobbits room. Strider looks from the window as the Ringwraiths gallop down the Bree Streets. Strider turns back to the Hobbits, his face lit faintly by the Glowing Embers of the Fire. STRIDER, MERRY, PIPPIN, AND FRODO march through a gloomy, overgrown forest. Sam follows at the read leading "Bill", a scrawny pony, who is laden with supplies. Frodo watches uneasily as Strider moves off into the cover of the trees. SAM looks excited. Strider leads the Hobbits through the gloom of the forest. Strider leading Frodo, Sam, Merry, and Pippin across the windswept moors. The hobbits suddenly stop and unstrap their knapsacks. Strider stares at Pippin blankly, then turns away, shaking his head. An apple is thrown to Merry, who deftly catches it. Another, aimed at Pippin, catches him on the forehead. The hobbits trudge through rain, looking tired, hungry, and miserable. Saruman stands over the Palantir, his hands cupping the massive eye. BLACK SPEECH FILLS THE ROOM ADMIST THE HARSH, GUTTURAL WORDS THE VOICE OF SARUMAN EMERGES. Saruman is seated as his ORC OVERSEER approaches. GANDALF lying unconscious on a cold obsidian floor. He wakes to the sound of ripping and tearing rising onto his knees lifting his head Gandalf stands as the camera pulls back to reveal him stranded on the summit of Orthanc. He is marooned on the tiny, flat peak, surrounded on all sides by a sheer 500 FOOT DROP. Another whispering wail rends the air. Gandalf crosses quickly to the edge and peers down One of the beautiful Isengard trees is being ripped from the ground by the ORCS. Gandalf looks on in Horror as ORCS hack into the trunk with axes. MORE AND MORE TREES are hauled down and killed as Gandalf looks on in helpless despair. The rugged countryside as the hobbits journey on, lead by Strider. Strider stops before a distant hill, topped by an Ancient Ruin. FRODO, MERRY, AND PIPPIN collapse into a small hollow, halfway up Weathertop they are muddy and exhausted. Stider drops 4 small swords at the Hobbits feet. Frodo eyes flickering open. He suddenly sits up, sniffing the air. Sam, Merry, and Pippin huddled over a small fire Sausages and bacon sizzle in a hot frying pan. A SUDDEN SHREIK. FIVE RINGWRAITHS ON FOOT, running up the steep slope unnaturally fast. Frodo, Sam, Merry and Pippin clamber desperately towards the summit, clutching their swords. Frodo, Sam, Merry, and Pippin race into a RING OF BROKEN STONES on the summit or Weathertop the ruined base of an ancient tower. The hobbits stand back-to-back in the centre of the Ring, waiting for the first assault One by one, the 5 Ringwraiths appear brandishing Gleaming swords, they move slowly towards the hobbits. In the center is their leader the WITCH KING. Sam rushes forward with a cry. He swings his sword at the Witch King, who blocks the blow with his own sword. Sam's blade shatters the WITCH KING lashes out with his fist, sending Sam flying. Merry and Pippin, overcome with terror, throw themselves flat on the ground. THE RINGWRAITHS close in on Frodo a Venomous whisper dances in his head. Frodo shuts his eyes and staggers back, desperately resisting the WRAITH'S WHISPERINGS slow motion as his hand goes into his pocket and pulls out the ring. The 5 Ringwraiths utter a chilling SCREECH OF EXCITEMENT. Frodo is unable to resist any longer, falls to his knees and slips on the ring. He disappears. Frodo finds himself in the weird twilight world he looks upon the Ringwraiths, now visible in their TRUE APPEARANCE Five Ghouls dressed in long Grey robes, with white hair, and Pallid, ruthless faces. THE WITCH KING extends a haggard hand towards Frodo, reaching for the ring on his finger. Frodo's trembling hand extends forward as if by the pull of the ring he slides to the ground, unable to pull his hand away. The witch king snarls and springs forward. He stabs at Frodo with a wicked dagger. Frodo winces as the tip of the dagger sinks into his shoulder. Suddenly, Strider charges at the RINGWRAITHS, wielding his sword in one hand, a flaming torch in the other. He moves in slow motion, visible through a sea of mist. Frodo sinks to the ground. Behind him is a faint image of a Ringwraith fleeing, his head engulfed in flames. With draining strength, Frodo manages to pull the ring off his finger.  Appearing back in the real world, Sam rushes over to him. Another Ringwraith is burning and screaming others screech fearfully at the flames, turn and flee form the Weathertop summit. Strider kneels before Frodo. He snatches up the Witch King's Dagger from the ground, staring gravely at the long, thin, blade. Strider is jogging grimly, carrying an ailing Frodo on his back. Sam, Merry, and Pippin are running to keep up. The hobbits are carrying Flaming torches for protection. Low angle looking up at ORTHANC the tower of Isengard, gleaming in the moonlight. The camera rises to reveal the once beautiful gardens are not a pitted wasteland with smoke and fire billowing out of numerous tunnels and vent holes that litter the forecourt of ORTHANC. Strange guttural chants echo up from deep underground. The camera is rising a small moth flutters into shot and leads the camera towards the summit or Orthanc. Gandalf lies slumped against the wall at the very top of Orthanc, surrounded by a sheer 500 foot drop. He looks Weak and Frail and is seemingly asleep. The MOTH flutters close to Gandalf. His hand suddenly moves at lighting speed and SNATCHES THE MOTH. Gandalf brings his hand close to his face and opens it. The moth sits on the palm of his hand as Gandalf mutter strange words in a foreign tongue. THE MOTH'S face seemingly listening. It suddenly flutters away. CAMERA FOLLOWS the moth off the Orthanc summit, but drops past the moth falling down, down, towards the pitted wasteland, straight into a fiery red tunnel. The dead trees of Isengard are fed into roaring furnaces molten metal pours into casts red hot metal, beaten my sweating orc blacksmiths armor and weapons are forged from the great furnaces. Saruman strides among the ORCS and stands looking on a new born uruk-hai as it escapes its birthing membrane this is LURTZ, who rises up to stand before his master. Frodo his eyes flicker open clouded, red- rimmed his brow, beaded with sweat. A DISTANT CRY of a RINGWRAITH carries through the air. Frodo gasps in sudden pain. Sam and Strider desperately search the dark forest floor for the Athelas plant. A small, white flowered plant. Strider drops to one knee, carefully pulling it from the ground. SUDDENLY. STRIDER FREEZES AS A SWORD BLADE TOUCHES HIS NECK. Strider slowly looks up. Frodo is breathing hard, desperately ill. Surreal impression a SHIMMERING FIGURE IN WHITE leaps off a horse. An ethereal vision of ARWEN, as she appears on the other side. ARWEN Who now appears in her earth bound form, a young Elven woman with tousled hair, dressed in mud-splattered riding clothes. Arwen reaches for Strider's hand looking deep into his eyes. Arwen mounts her horse, ALSFORTH. Arwen looks down at Strider as she supports Frodo with one hand. Asfaloth springs away, bearing Arwen and Frodo into the night. through the forest from the back of the White Horse. FRODO, BOUNCING IN THE SADDLE, he lifts his head weakly. SURREAL THE HORSES HEAD BOBBING trees sliding by moonlight flickers through the trees. of Arwen's white horse emerging from the trees and galloping across the open land as the sun rises. The white horse charges through a Pine Forest. Suddenly 2 Galloping Ringwraiths emerge from the trees behind. 2 more Ringwraiths slide in from different directions to join the chase. Arwen grits her teeth urges the white horse to greater speed. The white horse speeds out of the pine trees the 4 ringwraiths close behind 2 more ringwraiths galloping down the hillside. 3 MORE RINGWRAITHS enter frame from different directions a total of 9 RINGWRAITHS now pursuing Frodo and Arwen. Panting head of the WHITE ELVEN HORSE. As the White Horse races towards Camera, to Reveal the wide river Bruinen in the foreground. Without hesitation, the white horse leaps into the shallow water and thunders across the Ford. The 9 Ringwraiths pull up short of the Ford, clearly nervous of the water. The white horse reaches the other side Arwen pulls up and turns to defiantly face the Ringwraiths from across the Ford. THE WITCH KING SCREECHES ANGRILY, draws his sword, and leads the Ringwraiths across the Ford. The water starts flowing faster a distant rumble can be heard. Arwen waits until they are halfway across she suddenly stands in the saddle arms raised. THE GROUND SUDDENLY TREMBLES A MIGHTY ROAR FILLS THE AIR. Frodo looks up weakly to see a vast torrent of Water flooding down the river towards the ford as if a dam had burst. The Foaming water seems to form the shape of Dancing white horses with frothing manes. The Ringwraiths scream in terror as they are swallowed up in the deluge. Their Piercing cries are drowned in the roaring of the river as it carries them away. FRODO as he loses consciousness. Arwen gathers the small Hobbit in her arms, feeling his life slip away. DELIRIOUS IMAGES AND SOUNDS. A BRIGHT LIGHT suddenly flares Frodo squeezes his eyes shut, gasping. A FAMILIAR VOICE cuts through the swirl of sound. Frodo's eyes flicker Open He is lying in bed next to an Open Window Dappled sunlight plays on richly carved timbers the sound of a nearby waterfall drifts through the Vista of Fir Trees. GANDALF IS SITTING NEXT TO FRODO'S BED. softly puffing on his pipe. He smiles at Frodo. Frodo sits up, looking at Gandalf questioningly. Gandalf troubled. His eyes drift away. SARUMAN stands over Gandalf, gloating. With the power of his staff, Saruman raises Gandalf from the ground, then sends him crashing to the floor. SUDDENLY. GANDALF lurches to his feet and Throws himself off the Tower. Saruman watches Gandalf fly away from Isengard on the Back of a GIANT EAGLE. Gwaihir the Eagle soars majestically over the mountains, carrying Gandalf towards the dawn. Frodo raises himself up and looks at Gandalf. Sam runs to Frodo's bedside. He is overjoyed to find Frodo awake. bedside his face is neither old nor young, though in it is written the memory of many things both glad and sorrowful. RIVENDELL a small cluster of elegant Elven Buildings sitting in a Shangri-la like Valley below towering cliffs and snow capped mountains. Frodo and Sam walk together. Suddenly, the voices of Merry and Pippin can be heard as they bound up to Frodo and throw their arms around him. Sam looks past Frodo smiling a bent figure sits alone on a bench, in the Sun. Frodo turning, following Sam's gaze. BILBO BAGGINS. He breaks in to a broad grin as Frodo rushes forward to embrace him. Bilbo has aged significantly since we last saw him. LATER Frodo is turning the neatly inscribed title page of a red leather bound journal Bilbo smiles Proudly. He is sitting with Frodo on a terrace overlooking a Waterfall. Frodo looks at Page after page of beautiful Handwriting, with intricate Maps and Drawings. Frodo turns a page there before him, is a map of the Shire. Sam busily tries to stuff more and more things into his already full pack pots and pans, blankets, cooking utensils, provisions, clothes. Sam looks up, startled. Gandalf and Elrond watch Frodo and Sam from Elrond's balcony, Elrond turns and walks away. Gandalf turns and looks out the window. Sounds of arrivals Gandalf watches as Boromir rides through Rivendell gate, followed by Legolas and Gimli. With the broken sword, Isildur slices off Sauron's finger. Elrond reacts. ISILDUR PICKS UP THE RING AND STARES AT IT, ENTRANCED. ELROND AND ISILDUR STAND BEFORE THE FIRES OF MT. DOOM. ISILDUR CAPTIVATED BY THE RING. Isildur turns and walks away Elrond turns to Gandalf. Strider watches from the shadows as Boromir strolls through the darkened gallery. Boromir's eyes are drawn to an old Fresco on the wall depicting Isildur defeating Sauron. Boromir looks with Wonderment at Narsil, the Broken Blade of Elendil, which lies on a cloth-covered plinth. Boromir senses Strider's presence he looks from the blade to Strider, as if sensing a connection. Strider picks up the broken hilt, as Arwen appears behind him. Night falls upon the beautiful valley of Rivendell still and quiet. Strider and Arwen stand upon a stone bridge the Evenstar at Arwen's breast shines in the moonlight. Arwen reaches up and gently touches the Grey at Strider's temples. Arwen looks into Strider's eyes. Arwen closes Strider's fingers around the jewel. Arwen leans towards Strider, gently kissing him. Elrond addresses the council. Frodo sits amongst a council of free-peoples of Middle earth, Elrond stands before them, addressing Gandalf, Strider, Legolas, and 20 other elves, Dwarves, and men. Frodo steps forward and moves towards a stone Plinth. He places the ring on the plinth and returns to his seat. Strider says nothing and Boromir turns away dismissively. LEGOLAS stands. Frodo looks at Strider questioningly Boromir turns sharply. Gimli suddenly rushes forward. He swings his axe down on the ring. The axe shatters with a deafening crack. Gimli falls backwards, staring in disbelief at the ring unharmed. Frodo winces as an angry image of the fiery eye hits him. He slumps in this chair, clutching his forehead. Gandalf looks at him with concern. Stunned silence the council sits with downcast eyes, as if a great dread has descended on them. Boromir addresses the council in a quiet voice Gimli leaps to his feet. motion the angry faces, the shaking fists, the accusatory fingers, his eyes move across to the ring the hum grows louder in his head. THE RING fills the screen streams of blood flow across the surface flames flicker within the Gold Band. FRODO breathing rapidly, Caught in the grip of his hideous vision. With a huge effort or will, Frodo tears his gaze upon the ring. Frodo suddenly stands he speaks in a strong, clear voice. Sudden silence Frodo looks around the room at the astounded faces. Boromir looks at them all then walks towards Frodo. Boromir looks towards Elrond and Gandalf. Frodo stares in wonder as the Greatest Fighters in all Middle earth stand at his side. A Sudden Noise Sam pops up from behind a Bush. Merry and Pippin jump up from behind another bush. ELROND SURVEYS THE GROUP An old sword sliding out of a shabby leather Scabbard its polished, well tendered Blade glitters cold and bright. Bilbo offers Sting to Frodo. Bilbo unwraps a small shirt of close woven Mail. Frodo peels off his shirt revealing The Ring on the Chain around his neck. Bilbo sobs and Frodo moves to comfort him. The Fellowship climb the long steep path out of the cloven vale of Rivendell. The fellowship trekking through a land of Deep Valleys and turbulent waters the misty mountains rise sharply to their left. Sam at the campfire. The sound of clashing swords. Aragorn and Boromir are giving Pippin Sword tuition. GIMLI has managed to corner Gandalf. Boromir thrusts, catching Pippin on the hand. Pippin throws down his sword, kicks and lunges at Boromir, tackling him to the ground. Much laughter. Legolas' eyes are fixed on a distant Dark Patch which darts about the sky, like flying smoke in the wind. there is as a regiment of Large crows fly low overhead at Great speed, wheeling and circling above. As their dark shadow passes over the fellowship, a single harsh croak is heard and the crows suddenly wheel away, back towards the south. Gandalf staggers to his feet. Gandalf looks at Aragorn, turns to the others gesturing towards a high mountain pass. The Fellowship clamber through Rock and Snow. Frodo slips on some shale as he scrambles to his feet, the Ring falls on the ground the ring gleaming in the snow. Boromir's Hand picks it up by the chain he stands, the ring dangling before his eyes. He seems to grow in stature, as if absorbing its power. Aragorn warily approaches Boromir Boromir is motionless he stares at the ring, as if transfixed. Boromir smiles at Frodo, ruffling his hair. ARAGON unhands his sword. Following the crows as they race deeper and deeper, passing a vista of Industry, Hundreds of Orcs and writhing Birthsacks flying past Saruman, who stands upon a wooden Gantry. Saruman, listening to the Cries of the crows. THE FELLOWSHIP are struggling through a blinding blizzard, up towards the PASS OF CARADHRAS. Legolas the Elf moves lightly across the top of the snow he suddenly pauses. Saruman's voice sweeps by in the wind. THUNDER RUMBLES ROCK and Shale fall from above. GANDALF RAISES HIS STAFF HE CHANTS INTO THE WIND. CAMERA SWEEPS PAST SARUMAN he stands on the summit of Orthanc, Chanting. CLOUDS ARE FLOWING FROM ALL DIRECTIONS converging on the distant mountains in a stormy Malestrom. Saruman's voice strengthens rolling past the fellowship like thunder. A LIGHTNING CRACK explodes on the mountainside above them. Frodo looks up in horror as a huge snow avalanche thunders down towards them. The Fellowship throw themselves against the cliff face as snow crashes onto the narrow ledge. LEGOLAS pulls Gandalf to safety. Aragorn shields Frodo and Sam as snow piles around them. Within moments, the pass is blocked and the fellowship are enveloped in snow. Boromir and Aragorn frantically dig for the hobbits who are pulled out Shivering and Fearful. FRODO, the weight of the decision weighing heavily upon him. MERRY and PIPPIN shivering in Boromir's arms. Frodo meets Gandalf's eye. The Fellowship are walking along the far shore of dark lake directly below great looming cliffs. Footing is treacherous on the narrow strip of green and greasy stones. Gandalf touches the smooth rock wall between the trees slowly, faint lines appear like slender veins of luminous silver running through the stone. A large moon rises over the mountains The lines grow Broader and Clearer, forming a glowing arch of interlacing ancient letters and symbols. Gandalf raises his arms. The cliff towers into the night, the wind blows cold, Frodo shivers and the door stands fast. GANDALF CONTINUES. Mumbling spells in his efforts to open the door. Sam packs pots and pans at his feet watching sadly as Aragorn un- saddles Bill the pony. ARAGORN whispering to Bill the Pony. SPLASH. Merry and Pippin are tossing stones into the lake. Black Rippling rings slowly fan out. Pippin is about to throw another stone, but Aragorn grabs his arm. Aragorn watches anxiously as the Ripples appear to grow he exchanges a look with Boromir. Aragorn's hand creeps towards his sword. Gandalf gives up in despair he sits down beside Frodo. Frodo peers at the Elvish inscription his face breaks into a smile of comprehension. Gandalf raises his eyebrows. With that, the rock face silently divides in the middle and two great Doors swing outwards revealing a blackness deeper than the night. As the Fellowship enter the Blackness, something in the water stirs. The Fellowship step warily into the darkness of Moria a Dank cavern, with winding steps leading deeper into the mountain. A Glow from Gandalf's Staff suddenly lights the chamber The Fellowship recoil in Horror. Many dwarf Skeletons are strewn about, clearly the dead of some old battle the rusting armor and shields are peppered with arrows and axes. The Fellowship draw swords and back away, towards the Entrance. Frodo is suddenly PULLED TO THE GROUND. A long sinuous Tentacle is wrapped around Frodo's ankle and is dragging him towards the lake. FRODO CRIES OUT as Aragorn and Boromir rush forward. Aragorn severs the Tentacle holding Frodo, and pulls him to safety Boromir hacks at the other Writhing Limbs. 20 more tentacles ripple out of the Lake. The dark water Boils as the hideous beast lashes out at the FELLOWSHIP. Again the creature grabs Frodo and pulls him to the lake, Frodo is flung in the air as the Fellowship battle the creature. Aragorn hacks at a tentacle Frodo is released, falling into Boromir's arms. Legolas shoots an Arrow into the creature's head, gaining a few vital seconds for Aragorn and Boromir as they race out of the water with Frodo. The FELLOWSHIP hurriedly back away from the Creature retreating into the Moria Chamber as many Coiling arms seize the large doors. With a shattering echo, the creature rips the doors away, creating a rock slide that crashes down the Cliff Face. Within seconds, tons of rock seal the doorway throwing the Fellowship into Pitch Blackness. the Fellowship crossing a precarious bridge above deep mine workings. They continue up a steep stair, passing through a dwarf cemetery. The graves are despoiled dwarf skeletons are strewn about and Goblin Graffiti is scrawled on monuments in dried Dwarf blood. The Atmosphere is very sinister. The path splits into three passages each disappearing into dark tunnels. Gandalf pauses, frowning. LATER The Fellowship are nervously waiting while Gandalf sits, staring intently at the 3 tunnel mouths in front of him. He appears to be in some kind of trance. FRODO He turns at the sound of a faint noise down the tunnel behind them. a sudden glimpse of a creature darting in the darkness. Frodo is nervous he approaches Gandalf. TEASING SHOT and emaciated, leering creature. Gollum's withered fingers are gripping the cave wall he is large, Luminous eyes blinking with malice. The Fellowship pass under an arched doorway into a black and empty space. Gandalf pauses. blazes like a silent Flash of Lightning. Great shadows spring up and flee. their heads, upheld by many mighty pillars hewn of stone. Before them stretches a huge empty hall, with black walls, polished and smooth as glass. Ahead of them, a wooden door has been smashed. Black arrows are embedded in the timbers. Two goblin skeletons lie in the doorway. Gimli rushes ahead. Gimli rushes into another vast empty chamber lit with a narrow shaft of sunlight, beaming in from a small hole near the roof. Dwarf and Goblin skeletons are piled high. In the far corner sits a stone walled Well. A shaft of light falls directly onto a stone table in the middle of the room a single oblong block, about 4 feet high, topped with a great slab of white stone. Gimli falls to his knees. Gimli sobs. Gandalf quietly reads an inscription of runes, carved onto the white stone slab. Gandalf carefully lifts the rotting remains of a book from the white stone slab. It has been slashed and stabbed and appears to be covered in Dried Blood. The pages crack and break as he opens it. Unnerved, Pippin backs away nervously He stumbles against the well, sending a precariously balanced Armored skeleton tumbling in. Merry reaches out, Grabbing hold of Pippin before he falls. The Fellowship freeze in stunned silence as the armored skeleton clatters down the deep well echoing loudly. Gandalf turns angrily on Pippin. PIPPIN, CHASTENED. They fall silent. A low rolling boom rises from the depths below growing louder BOOM BOOM as if the caverns of Moria were turned into a vast drum. A great horn blasts nearby Answering horns running feet harsh cries Sam's eyes glance at Frodo's belt. Aragorn and Boromir slam and wedge the doors. Boromir catches sight of something he turns to Aragorn with shock in his eyes. Gimli snatches up two rusty dwarf axes and leaps onto the tomb. BOOM. The Door bursts open in a shower of wood fragments, and 20 Goblins charge into the tomb, followed by a huge cave troll. Gimli ducks a blow and immediately buries his Axes in 2 Goblin helmets. Aragorn and Boromir wade into the mass of Goblins with their swords. Legolas fires deadly arrows into Goblin throats, desperately trying to Shield the Hobbits. Gandalf is clutching his sword and joins in the battle. The cave troll is sweeping his club at Aragorn who stumbles backwards the huge club descends for the killing blow suddenly, in a flash of steel, Boromir's long sword slices into the Scaly arm of the troll it rears back, spewing green blood. Sam is backing up against a wall a sword in one hand, a saucepan in the other. In desperation he swings wildly at a Goblin with a saucepan. It keels over Sam looks surprised. He wallops another Goblin and it too, drops. The Cave Troll lunges forward, thrusting at Frodo's chest with his spear. The hobbits go crazy. Sam slashes at the cave troll's knee, bringing him down Merry and Pippin jump on him Legolas fires an arrow and the cave troll topples, dead. Aragorn rushes to Frodo's side as he slumps to the floor Frodo appears to be dead. Gandalf, Aragorn, Hobbits looking horrified Suddenly Frodo coughs takes a huge breath. Frodo open his shirt to reveal the Mithril Vest. The Troll Spear did not pierce the mithril." BOOM. BOOM. BOOM the sound of the drums rings out again. Gandalf turns to the others. Gandalf leads the fellowship into the huge Dwarrowdelf Chamber. A HUGE SHADOW, surrounded by flame, falls across the hall the ground shakes an unearthly sound rumbles. The BALROG, a massive creature rises from a chasm, a great 40 foot man-beast, with a mane of flames. In one hand is a blade like a stabbing tongue of fire in the other, a WHIP of many thongs. Aragorn leads the fellowship to the top of a dizzying stairway Gandalf follows, leaning heavily on his staff. Aragorn looks at Gandalf, concerned. Aragorn hesitates Gandalf looks at him. THE FELLOWSHIP race down the stairway, Aragorn picks up Frodo leaping across a gaping chasm. A NARROW BRIDGE, spanning a bottomless pit Gandalf yells to the others Aragorn makes to throw Gimli across the Chasm. The Fellowship run into a hall the floor is split with fissures that spit flame. They race towards the slender bridge of stone without kerb or rail at the far end of the hall. The Fellowship recklessly hurry over the dizzying bridge but Gandalf the last pauses in the middle of the span he faces the Balrog staff in one hand Sword in the other. Frodo looks back in horror Frodo watches as the Balrog puts one foot on the bridge and draws up to Full Height, wings spreading from wall-to-wall. Gandalf is a tiny figure, balanced precariously on the narrow bridge. flame Gandalf blocks with his sword a ringing clash and the Balrog's sword shatters into molten fragments. GANDALF CRIES ALOUD as he summons up his LAST RESERVES OF STRENGTH. He thumps the bridge with his staff a blinding sheet of white flame springs up the staff shatters the bridge breaks right at Balrog's feet. The stone bridge drops away into the gulf from under the Balrog. For a moment, the great Beast remains poised in the air then it plunges down in slow motion Relief floods Frodo's face Gandalf remains trembling on the lip of the broken bridge. As the Balrog falls, he lashes out with his whip of fire The thongs of the whip lash and curl around Gandalf's knees, dragging him over the brink. Gandalf just manages to hand on by his fingertips Gandalf lets go his grip and falls away following the Balrog into the bottomless Abyss. Frodo cries out. Boromir scoops him up and carries him away. They rush towards an archway. The Fellowship tumble out of the Great Eastern Gate on to a grassy sunlit hillside. Sam, Merry, and Pippin fall slowly to the ground, Sobbing Aragorn turns to Legolas and Gimli. FRODO SLOWLY TURNS a look of numb shock on his devastated face. The Fellowship marches on. Aragorn scours ahead of the company, as they stumble on in the fading light in the distance the shimmer of a large forest can be seen Lothlorien. The fellowship run across a forest floor strewn with yellow flowers above is a roof of golden leaves, held up by silver pillars the trunks of huge, grey trees. Gimli looks nervously around. Frodo hesitates a STRANGE VOICE whispers in his head. Haldir's eyes lock onto Frodo. Haldir leads the Fellowship onto a Hill Top. They look with wonderment at the vista spread before them. Several miles towards the South, a Large Hill rises out of the woods. Upon the hill rise many mighty Mallorn Trees, taller than any others Nestled high in the crown of the mallorns is a Beautiful City. It Gleams in the low rays of the late afternoon sun green, gold, and silver. To the east of Caras Galadhon, the Woods of Lorien run down the pale gleam of Anduin, the great river. Beyond the River, the land appears flat and empty, formless and vague, until far away, it rises again like a dark and dreary wall. The Sun that lies on Lothlorien has not power to enlighten the shadows that lie beyond. THE FELLOWSHIP step onto a wide fleet filled with a soft light. The walls are green and silver, the roof gold and in its midst is the trunk of the might Mallorn tree, now tapering toward its crown. Celeborn steps forward to greet the guests. His hair is long and silver, his face grave and beautiful, with no sign of age upon it. Next to him stands Galadriel, the Lady of the Elves. She has hair of deep gold and timeless, unsurpassed beauty. Celeborn looks hard at Aragorn. Frodo looks at Galadriel, standing silently beside Celeborn. Galadriel's eyes settle on Sam. side Powerful, divine no longer of this world a Piercing white light surrounds her. Gimli, Legolas, Merry, Pippin, Frodo and Sam are in a pavilion set among the trees near the fountain. They lie on soft couches as Elves leave food and wine for them. MOURNFUL SINGING drifts down from the trees above. Moonlight catches the trace of tears on Boromir's face. Aragorn kneels down beside him. BOROMIR looks at ARAGORN in despair. Aragorn returns Boromir's smile betraying his disquiet sadness only when Boromir looks away. LATER. The Fellowship are asleep on their beds. Gimli is snoring loudly. BARE FEET tread soundlessly across the lawn. Frodo's eyes flicker open as if by instinct. GALADRIEL, her White dress glowing in the moonlight, glances at him. Frodo follows her as if drawn by an invisible force. Upon a low stone pedestal, carved like a branching tree, sits a shallow Silver Basin. Galadriel leads Frodo into the small Glade. Galadriel pours water into the basin from a silver jug a glow rises from the water. Frodo slowly steps up to the pedestal he peers into the glossy surface. The night sky is reflected into the water suddenly a figure takes form the bowed figure of an old man, clad in white robes. He walks down a long road. Frodo leans closer to the mirror's surface. GANDALF LIFTS HIS HEAD AND LOOKS DIRECTLY AT FRODO. FRODO gasps, his face lighting up with hope. Gandalf looks at Frodo with a fierce intensity. Frodo reaches out his hand toward the surface of the mirror. Suddenly the image flares, burning out to white. The vision shifts Frodo gasps in horror. The Shire is in ruins. The image suddenly widens to fill the screen buildings burning bodies strewn about Dark Shapes of ORCS looting and destroying Bag End, billowing in flames. The Party tree is hacked down. Frodo reels back as the mirror seems to grow the nightmarish image sweeps past his head, engulfing him entirely. Hobbiton now an Industrial wasteland. The fields and trees destroyed replaced with Brick factories belching smoke. ORCS brutally herd manacled Hobbits into the Factories. We see Sam Merry and Rosie Cotton. Soot- stained and sobbing, they disappear into the factory hell- hole. Suddenly, the mirror goes dark and out of the black abyss a single eye grows. FRODO IS FROZEN. Unable to move or cry out. The ring dangles from his neck, inches above the water not shimmering with curls of steam. Fire erupts around the eye With a Yell, Frodo pushes himself away from the pedestal and collapses on the ground. Light instantly fades from the mirror. Frodo comes to his senses he is shocked. Galadriel stands still as a statue, unmoved, untouched by the horror. Galadriel looks at Frodo intensely Frodo looks down in his hand he is clutching the ring. Frodo looks up at Galadriel. Galadriel suddenly seems to rise in stature before Frodo's eyes. Frodo is suddenly afraid of her. Galadriel suddenly laughs a slender Elf-woman once more, clad in simple white, her voice soft and sad. Frodo realizes what her message is. The Ring lies in the palm of Frodo's hand his fingers close over it. Naked, Lurtz's eyes follow Saruman, alight with a mean intelligence. LURTZ is quickly armored Breastplate Leg guards, Helmet a sword is thrust in Lurtz's hand. The URUK- HAI are smearing themselves in white paint a creepy ritualistic ceremony the white hand of Isengard is smeared on bodies, faces, and armor. SARUMAN address a crowd of 200 fully armed URUK-HAI. Lurtz is leading 200 URUK-HAI out of Isengard they run fast, their powerful legs carrying them at speed. The Fellowship are in small elven boats. They row away from the Lothlorien Shore into the Silverlode river. Elves quietly watch them depart. Galadriel gives Frodo a small Crystal Phial. The boats pass into the great river Anduin. The Three Elven boats carry the Fellowship steadily southward. Green trees slowly give way to a brown and withered land. The Uruk forces are running through the trees with deadly purpose. A flock of birds circle high above, Black against the pale sky. Aragorn watches them with concern. The Three Elven boats drift slowly through the steep rocky gorge in the Pre-dawn light. ARAGORN, slowly paddling in the stern. Frodo slowly looks up, his eyes widening with amazement. Two enormous rock statues, towering like 300 foot pinnacles on either side of the river carved images of Gondorian kings of old. They loom over the boats with power and majesty. Aragorn strangely moved by the beauty of the silent sentinels. He speaks, almost as if to himself. The fellowship stare in stunned silence as the current takes them through the narrow gap between the Statues' feet. THE FELLOWSHIP As they leap out of the boats and clamber onto the wooded shore. Legolas turns to Aragorn with urgency. Legolas casts a glance around into the Parth Galen forest. Sam sits up with a start Aragorn's head snaps round his eyes fly to Boromir's shield which lies abandoned by his camp bed. ARAGORN as he realizes Boromir has gone. Frodo is walking beneath the trees lost in thought. His feet hit the rough edge of an ancient stone slab his eyes follow an overgrown path towards stone stairs leading to the summit of Amon Hen the seeing seat. A CRACKLING SOUND. Frodo freezes. Frodo turns slowly he stares at Boromir, tense, cautious. Frodo stands silent for a moment the murmur of the Wind in the trees and the distant roar of the falls of Rauros can be heard Boromir has started forward towards Frodo, he pulls himself up. Frodo steps hurriedly away from Boromir. Frodo turns to leave. Boromir leaps on top of Frodo, grasping for the ring. Frodo has only moments to act. Frodo rips the ring from around his neck and rams it on his finger. FRODO races through the misty twilight world, past the foggy shapes of twisted trees. Somewhere behind him, Boromir's distraught voice carries from another dimension Frodo suddenly finds himself on the stone steps he clambers up the stairs, onto a high seat, perched on four stone pillars. Frodo cowers on the seat, like a lost child upon the throne of mountain kings. The world of mist swirls around him. Frodo peers out from the seat the world seems to shrink. In all directions, Views of far off lands telescope towards him through the mist. ORCS spilling out of holes in the misty mountains flames rising from Mirkwood grim faced easterlings march to war black ships sailing into the south. All the power of the Dark Lord is in motion. Frodo moves his gaze towards the east fire explodes against the smoke, as a huge mass of black battlements fills Frodo's vision. A mountain of iron, immeasurably strong, tower of adamant Barad-dur, FORTRESS OF SAURON. SUDDENLY. SAURON'S EYE LEAPS TOWARD FRODO LIKE A FINGER OF LIGHT. They will fall. Frodo leaps off the seat, and tumbles down the stairs. The eye sweeps Amon Hen like a searchlight, seeking its ring. With a huge effort, Frodo wrenches the ring off his finger. Frodo lies gasping on the summit of Amon Hen below the ancient ruins of the seeing seat. AT THAT MOMENT A BLACK BOOT STEPS INTO SHOT. Frodo looks up as Aragorn towers over him. Frodo backs away from Aragorn Aragorn is shocked by the movement. Frodo uncurls his fist in is palm lies the ring. It glints, gold and beautiful in the afternoon sun Aragorn's eyes are drawn to it. Aragorn freezes. He draws his sword. Frodo hesitates. Frodo backs away into the trees as 200 URUK-HAI SWARM onto Amon Hen behind Aragorn. Aragorn attacks the leading URUK-HAI like a madman he brings two down with his sword leaping into the ruins as others close in on him. Frodo scrambles down the hillside, away from the fight. Aragorn battles the URUK-HAI, amongst the pillars and blocks of Amon Hen. Despite his bravery, he is quickly surrounded SUDDENLY ELVEN ARROWS smash into the URUK-HAI. Legolas races out of the woods, firing his bow. Gimli leaps into the battle, wielding his might axe. Frodo is darting down the steep hillside as heave feet thunder down behind him. Sam looks around for Frodo. LURTZ ordering his URUKS. Frodo stumbles and falls quickly he crawls behind a tree above him the sound of Uruk-Hai crashing through the forest rings out. Frodo turns to see Merry and Pippin hidden in a hollow, a few feet away. Frodo looks at his friends slowly shakes his head, a great sadness in his eyes. Pippin stands and makes a move toward Frodo Merry grabs at his arm. THE ECHO OF BOROMIR'S HORN reaches Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli they are battling their way down the Slopes towards the lake. Aragorn desperately slashes his way towards Boromir, felling URUK-HAI in his path while Legolas and Gimli fight a rear guard action. MANY URUK-HAI fall to Boromir's sword as he tries to protect Merry and Pippin. Lurtz takes aim. A black arrow suddenly thuds into Boromir's chest. Amazingly, Boromir continues fighting, but another arrow and another, brings him to his knees. Merry and Pippin are scooped off their feet by URUK-HAI. Lurtz aims his bow at Boromir's heart suddenly Aragorn charges at him, smashing the Bow with his sword. They lock into a deadly battle. Aragorn cuts Lurtz down and races towards Boromir, who lies slumped against a tree URUK-HAI arrows sticking out of his chest. At least 20 dead URUK-HAI lie heaped around Boromir. His horn lies at his feet Cloven in two. Boromir holds Aragorn's gaze. Aragorn places Boromir's sword in his hand. Boromir's fingers tighten around the hilt. On the lakeshore Frodo stands in front of one of the Elvish Boats, the ring in his palm. A distraught Sam running as hard as he can through the forest. Frodo looks to the far side of the river the camera moves in on the ring. Tears fall down Frodo's face. With renewed determination, Frodo tucks the ring inside his vest pocket. The small figure of Frodo pushing the Elvish boat into the water Sam bursts through the trees and runs toward the lake Frodo is already paddling away. shore tears in his eyes the voice of Sam carried on the wind. Frodo whispers to himself Sam looks at the water then at the boat. SPLASH. FRODO turns to see Sam launching himself into the water. Sam splashes hopelessly toward the boat. Sam starts to go under, spluttering and coughing Frodo drops his paddle and scrambles backwards in the boat. Sam is underwater hands flailing helplessly as he sinks. Frodo's hand grasping Sam's Frodo pulls a bedraggled and half drowned Sam into the boat. Frodo and Sam look at each other, out of breath, tears and water streaming down both their faces. Frodo starts to laugh through his tears the two friends hug. The two Hobbits row through the water. Looking down on swiftly flowing water Boromir's body slides under camera. He is lying in one of the boats, his arms across his chest his broken horn at his side. Suddenly the boat drops away from camera as it plunges over the massive falls of Rauros, disappearing into the vapor below. Aragorn looks towards the far shore Frodo and Sam's small Boat can be seen lying on the distant Riverbank as Frodo and Sam make off into the forest beyond. He doesn't react. Legolas turns and looks at Aragorn. Aragorn pulls a HUNTING KNIFE out of his pack and straps it on. Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli disappear into the Woods, following the URUK-HAI trail. Frodo and Sam scramble onto a high ridge. A distant line of Saw toothed mountains below a dark, oppressive sky. Black volcanic smoke rises behind the mountains MORDOR. Frodo looks at Sam with great affection despite the grim outlook, Sam is undeterred. THE TWO HOBBITS SETTING OFF TOWARD MORDOR. THE END 