Camera zooms in through the mountain and focuses on Gandalf and the Balrog on the bridge of Khazad-dum. The Balrog strikes down on Gandalf with its flaming sword. Gandalf parries the blow with Glamdring, shattering the Balrog's sword. Gandalf strikes his staff onto the bridge. As the Balrog steps forward, the bridge collapses from under it and the demon plunges backward into the chasm. Gandalf, exhausted, leans on his staff and watches the Balrog fall then turns to follow the others. At the last minute, the flaming whip lashes up from the depths of the abyss and winds around Gandalf's ankle, dragging him over the edge. He clings onto the bridge but is straining to keep his grip. Frodo rushes forward but Boromir restrains him. Gandalf loses his grip and falls into the chasm Gandalf loses his grip and falls into the chasm Calls after Gandalf as he falls into the abyss Gandalf falls after the Balrog and grabs hold of his sword Glamdring on his way down. As they continue to plunge into the depths, Gandalf hacks away at the Balrog even as it thrashes and bounces off the walls. They continue to plunge at great speed, sometimes with Gandalf clinging to the horn of the demon. The battling pair then falls into an enormous cavern and plunges into the water. Just then Frodo awakens as if from a nightmare. Lies back down. Frodo and Sam climbs over the rocky terrain Emyn Muil. They look into the distance at the Mountain of Fire. Suddenly Frodo feels and sees the Eye zooming in on him. He gasps and pants as he backs away. Clutches the Ring by his chest and sits down, still panting. He then fumbles for his water bottle and takes a sip. He takes out a package of lembas bread from his packHe digs deeper into his pack Sam shows another package. He then breaks off a piece and tosses it to Frodo, and munches on a piece himself. smiles Sam smiles back, and then looks ominously towards Mordor. They continue trekking through difficult terrain, often huddling underneath their cloaks. Looks around Exasperated Drops to a whisper NIGHTTIME Frodo and Sam are sleeping. A dark shape appears on top of the cliff. The creature Gollum has appeared and is making his way down to the hobbits. Gollum creeps closer and closer. Gollum reaches out his hand towards the hobbits. Suddenly the hobbits spring up, grab hold of Gollum's arms and pull him down. Amidst the struggle, Gollum wriggles loose and leaps onto Frodo. As Frodo falls back, the chain and Ring around his neck is revealed and Gollum jumps straight for the Ring. Sam tries to grab at him but is knocked away. Gollum now jumps on top of Frodo and tries to reach for the Ring even as Frodo grabs his hands and tries to push him away. Gollum's cheeks puff with exertion as he struggles with Frodo, his enormous eyes fixed on the Ring. Sam grabs hold of Gollum again and tears him away from Frodo. Gollum then turns around and bites Sam on the shoulder, wriggles around and clasps his arms around Sam's neck and legs around his waist in a death grip. Frodo unsheathes Sting and holds it to Gollum's throat. menacingly Slowly, Gollum loosens his grip on Sam and as the latter disentangles himself, Gollum wails. In the next scene, Gollum is being dragged with Sam's Elvish rope around his neck, wailing and writhing in pain. Sam tugs fiercely at the rope. Gollum cries some more and collapses onto his back. Sam turns to Frodo in dismay. Begging Gollum backs away, frightened, and climbs onto a boulder Sam jerks strongly at the rope as Gollum tries to get away from him. He crashes onto the ground, choking. Gollum lies panting and holding his throat. He backs away, frightened, as Frodo approaches him. nods warily nods again Frodo reaches out and takes the rope noose off Gollum's neck. Gollum seems surprised and relieved. Gollum scrambles off in the direction of Morannon and the hobbits follow in his wake. A band of Uruk-hai marches across the plain, with two hobbits bound to the backs of two Uruk-hai. Pippin tries to call to Merry, who is unconscious with a gash on his right brow. He receives no response. Suddenly, an Uruk-hai puts up his hand and signals a stop. sniffs the air quietly to himself The Uruk-hai quicken their pace. Pippin struggles to reach his Elven brooch with his teeth. He then tears it off his cloak and drops it onto the ground. A foot stomps onto the brooch but it remains unbroken and visible on the grass. Aragorn is lying with his eyes closed and ear pressed to the ground, listening for the sound of footsteps. He looks up.He runs off. Looks back at Gimli and then runs after Aragorn pauses in his steps and huffsRuns after his companions. The Three Hunters run across rocks and plains, with Aragorn in the lead, followed by Legolas and Gimli. From time to time, Legolas looks back to make sure that Gimli is keeping up. Aragorn suddenly bends down to pick up an Elven brooch from the ground. stops and turns to Aragorn. Runs off again Gimli stumbles from behind some rocks and rolls to the ground Panting The trackers come over a hill and pause as they gaze across the plains below. Legolas runs ahead and looks out to the horizon. The tower of Orthanc stands amidst the smoking caverns of Isengard. Saruman stands in his chamber, communicating with the Dark Lord through the Palantir. View changes to the tower of Barad-dur, with its huge Orc armies on a bridge. Camera pans upwards along the height of the tower of Barad-dur until the flaming Eye is in view. The trees around Isengard are being ripped down, chopped up and used to feed huge furnaces. The caverns of Isengard glow with the fires of industry, sounds of hammering fill the air and molten iron is poured into casts to forge weapons. Saruman stands in the midst of a gathering of Dunlanders. Roars with approval They stomp off to destroy the villages of Rohan as Saruman stands coldly still among the stampede. A Rohan village is in pandemonium as people try to escape the on-coming pillage. A woman with her hand on a horse calls out to her children. As Morwen puts her onto the horse in front of her brother starts to cry A woman screams The children ride off. Looks after them Dunlanders and Uruk-hai enter the village, burning everything in sights as the Rohirrim scream and run in all directions. Eothain and Freda weep as they look back from a distance. A group of horsemen ride to Edoras. Eomer is in the lead, carrying a gravely wounded Theodred. Eowyn runs hastily up the stairs to the Golden Hall and enters a bedchamber. She runs to the bed. Theodred seems to hear her call but is unable to respond. He has a bloody gash on the side of his head. Eomer nods to Eowyn in the direction of Theodred's torso. Eowyn draws back the covers and upon seeing Theodred's fatal wound, her lips tighten and eyes close. She looks up to catch Eomer's eye. Eomer and Eowyn are speaking to Theoden-king who sits motionless on his throne, wizened, and aged beyond his years. Appears from the shadows. mumbles feeblyGrima leans down close to the King. He drops a helmet onto the ground, which topples over to reveal the white hand of Saruman. Eomer grabs Grima and pins him against a pillar. Grima's eyes flicks to right, watching Eowyn as she walks by. Eowyn stops to stare back for a moment before departing form the hall. Eomer jerks Grima again and clutches his hand around Grima's jaw. Grima's eyes look to the left and relax as Eomer is suddenly pulled off Grima by his thugs. The thugs punch Eomer n the stomach Uruk-hai and Orcs continue to march across the plains with their hobbit captives, with Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli hot on their pursuits. They continue running over vast distances. The Uruk-hai and Orcs halt at nightfall, many panting with exertion. As the Orcs and Uruk-hai take their rest, Pippin crawls over towards Merry. opens his eyes A group of Orcs chops down the trees nearby for firewood. Low groans and rumbles start to emerge from the forest. looks towards the forest His eyes rest on the hobbits. Shoves at the Orcs The other Orcs are getting restless. Moves towards the hobbits with his blade drawn Pippin and Merry recoil in fright. Ugluk jumps on the Orc and cuts off his head, which bounces off the hobbit's shoulders. The Uruk-hai and Orcs cheer and started tearing into the fresh meat, intestines flying, taking their eyes off the hobbits for a while. Their hands still bound, the hobbits try to crawl away. Suddenly a foot comes down on Merry and Pippin is turned onto his back. Brandishing a blade in front of Pippin's face Suddenly, a spear pierces the Orc's back. Mayhem ensues as Riders of Rohan burst out from their hiding places and ambush the Orcs. Gestures for them to make their escape. The hobbits try to escape from the pandemonium to the forest, dodging bodies and stomping feet. Suddenly Pippin turns onto his face and looks up to a pair of thrashing hooves bearing down on him. The Three Hunters are still chasing after the Uruk-hai. It is dawn. Pauses and looks up Camera pans over the rock and plains, alternating between the band of Uruk-hai and the Three Hunters giving chase. The trackers hear the sound of horses. Aragorn and company hide behind some boulders. A large group of horse-men appears, galloping quickly with their banners flying. Aragorn comes out of hiding as they pass, followed by Legolas and Gimli. At a signal from Eomer at the lead, the riders make a quick turn and head towards them, surrounding them in ever-tightening circles. As they stop, they point their long spears menacingly at them. Eomer hands his staff to another rider, and gets off his horse. Aragorn puts a hand on Gimli's shoulder. Legolas, in a lightning fast move, points an arrow at Eomer. The riders all point their spears closer at the travellers. After a tense moment, Aragorn pushes down Legolas' arm. Takes off helmet The spears are withdrawn. Points to a smoking pile in the distance. nods Legolas puts a hand on Gimli's shoulder in grief. Eomer turns and whistles. Eomer puts on his helmet and gets back on his horse To the riders Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli look on as the Riders go off. They then ride towards the burning carcasses. Gimli starts to shift through the smoldering pile, and pulls out a charred belt and dagger sheath. with his head bowed and eyes closed Kicks a helmet and yellsHe falls to his knees. Aragorn looks to the side as some tracks catch his attention. Flashback: Pippin yells as he looks up at a pair of thrashing hooves bearing down on him. He rolls over, avoiding the hooves. ARAGORN STARTS TO FOLLOW THE TRACKS, WITH LEGOLAS AND GIMLI BEHIND HIM.  Merry and Pippin crawl frantically away from the battle. Flashback: Merry rubs his bonds furiously against the sharp edge of a weapon.Aragorn holds up a broken length of thick rope. Their hands freed, the hobbits run away from the battle scene, dodging under a horse and trying to stay out of harms way. As they flee, Grishnak grabs Pippin by his belt and clings on. Pippin undoes his belt and Grishnak is left holding it. They break into a run and then stop The Three looks up into a dense and dark forest Scene moves from the trackers into the nighttime chase of Merry and Pippin. The hobbits run into the Fangorn, seeking to lose the pursuing Orc. They collapse onto the ground, out of breath. Looks around Suddenly, Grishnak appears from behind the trees, brandishing a blade. Merry and Pippin run and hide behind a tree. Pippin and Merry quickly scramble up a tree each. Looks around and then sighs in relief. Suddenly, Merry is pulled by his legs and falls to the ground. Grishnak leans over him with his menacing blade. Merry tries to kick him off but to no avail. Pippin looks down in horror but as he turns his head, he spots a pair of gleaming yellow eyes blinking in the tree he's clinging to. The tree starts to move and groan. Pippin loses his grip in fright and grabs at the air futilely as he falls. The tree catches him before he hits the ground. Suddenly he senses something behind him and as he looks up, the tree stomps and squashes him onto the forest floor. Merry tries to run away but is scooped by the tree. Looks at the creatures in his hands Stomps slowly through the forest. Tightens his hold on the hobbits and squeezes them. Merry and Pippin whimpers in pain Treebeard drops them on the ground and the hobbits look up at the White Wizard. Following Gollum, Frodo and Sam reach the end of Emyn Muil and see that Mordor is now closer. Gollum jumps on a rock. Frodo walks past, Gollum shrinks as Sam draws near. Leaps after Frodo, putting a wide berth between him and Sam. Sam's foot slipped into muck. Gollum looks back and gestures for the hobbits to follow. The marsh lands stretch for miles and miles as far as the eye can see. The hobbits and Gollum appear as little specks. As the three pick their way gingerly though the marshes, they see faces floating in the water, still, rotting and pale, and flickering flames on the swamps. Turns to face the hobbits. Sam's foot slips again into the water. Frodo is drawn to one of the faces in Elven armour. He stares at it intently, until suddenly its eyes open and Frodo falls face-down into the water. Frodo is in the water and sees many faces of the dead, no longer still but screaming and grasping, their rotten robes and hair flowing about their gruesome faces. Their hands are reaching for him. Suddenly he is grabbed from behind. Frodo sputters and gasps for air as Gollum pulls him out of the water. Looks at Gollum in perplexed gratitude and disbelief. Crawls away Runs to Frodo's side. Frodo lies panting, staring after Gollum NIGHTFALL Sam is asleep but Frodo is still awake. He is holding the Ring in the palm of his hand and stroking it, mesmerized. Suddenly he hears Gollum. Frodo quickly puts the Ring back inside his shirt. He looks up to see Gollum crouching away from him, stroking the centre of his palm Moves over and crouches in front of Gollum Looks up slowly. Suddenly, the piercing cries of the Nazgul are heard overhead Suddenly Frodo feels the pain of the Nazgul's sword piercing him and the call of the Ring. Images of the Ringwraiths come to him in flashes. Frodo continues to clutch at the Ring on his chest, immobilized. Sam drags Frodo across to hide beneath some bramble bushes. The Nazgul appears, tightening his hold on the reins. Camera then shows him riding a Fell Beast, swooping down across the marsh lands. Chilling screams of the Nazgul fill the air. A loud screech from the Nazgul flying high above the marshes. cowering Frodo feels the call of the Ring and gropes for his necklace. Sam sees this and grabs hold of Frodo's hand. The Nazgul continues to circle overhead and then flies off towards Mordor. Scene returns to Fangorn forest. Gimli fingers a dark stain on a leaf and brings it to his mouth. Spits Groans reverberate through the forest and Gimli raises his axe. Whispers Gestures Lowering his axe slowly Close-up of Legolas' eyes Aragorn wraps his hand around the hilt of his sword, Gimli tightens his hold on his axes, and Legolas notches an arrow to his bow. With a yell, the three swing round to attack. Gimli's axe and Legolas' arrow are deflected. Aragorn drops his sword as it becomes red hot in his grasp. They shield their eyes with their hands from the bright light emanating from the White Wizard. The bright light dims, revealing Gandalf, all dressed in white. The three are astounded. Legolas and Gimli bow. Flashback: Gandalf is battling the Balrog atop Durin's Tower. Gandalf holds up Glamdring and a flash of lightning strikes it before he plunges the sword into the Balrog. With a final cry, the Balrog falls from the peak and lands, smoking, onto the icy mountainside. On top of the mountain, Gandalf crawls a bit and then collapses. Camera zooms in Gandalf's eye and enters an amorphous realm of stars and galaxies, ending in a blinding white light Camera zooms out from Gandalf's eye, lying naked and very still. His hair has turned white and wounds are completely healed. He suddenly shudders with a deep gasp and pants as life returns to him He smiles With a twinkle in his eyeAragorn grins They walk through the forest, with Gandalf leading the way, now wearing a grey cloak over his white robes. Outside the forest, Gandalf whistles piercingly. Soon an answering neigh is heard and a white horse appears from the plain, answering the call. The horse comes round to stop in front of Gandalf. Gimli bows in the background. The Three Hunters and Gandalf ride across the plains to Edoras. Back at Fangorn, Treebeard is walking through the forest with Merry and Pippin sitting on his shoulders. Frodo and Sam are climbing a high rock overlooking Morannon. The enormous Black Gate comes into view with Orcs patrolling and standing guard on the towers and atop the walls. From the right, an army of Easterling soldiers is marching to the Black Gate. Orcs are patrolling the Black Gate. A command is heard and an Orc sounds a horn, signalling for the Gate to be opened. Two enormous cave trolls stretch and growl and then pull the mighty Gate open. He moves closer to the edge. Suddenly, the rock underneath him gives way and he falls. Frodo goes after Sam. Two Easterling soldiers see streams of dust coming down the cliff made by Sam and Frodo. They move away from the troop to investigate. Frodo reaches Sam who is stuck in the scree. As the Easterlings move closer and closer, Frodo throws his Elvish cloak over himself and Sam. The soldiers are now directly in front of Sam, but their eyes see nothing but rock. Frodo and Sam peer from underneath the cloak. The soldiers soon leave and after a moment, Frodo throws back the cloak and pulls Sam out. They prepare to make a run for the Gate. Gollum pulls them back. Frodo tries to make a run for it. Pulls Frodo back again. Frodo and Sam watch as the Black Gate closes. Gollum is stroking Frodo's arm and burying his face in his cloak. Whispers Frodo follows Gollum as Sam stares after him in disbelief. On the plains of Rohan. Gandalf, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli stop as Edoras comes into view. In the Hall, Eowyn is kneeling before Theoden, holding his hand in hers. Theoden just sits and stares ahead, his eyes clouded and unseeing. She weeps. Scene returns to Gandalf and company. They ride on towards Edoras. At Edoras, Eowyn is weeping at the dead Theodred's bed. She kisses his hand. Grima appears at the door. He sits on the bed and puts a hand on Eowyn's shoulder. jumps back and throws off Grima's hand Rises from the bed and moves ever closer to Eowyn He puts a hand on her cheek and moves down to her throat. Eowyn and Grima stare at each other intently. Eowyn runs out of the hall. Weeping, she looks away into the distance. A flag comes off its pole and is carried by the breeze. Eowyn sees riders coming towards Edoras. As Aragorn passes the entrance to Edoras, the flag floats down to land near him. Edoras is silent and somber. Everyone is dressed in black and staring at the newcomers in wary silence. Aragorn looks up at the hall and sees a lady in white standing on the steps. He looks around at more somber people. Aragorn looks up to the hall again but the lady has disappeared. The company climbs up the stairs to the hall and is met by guards. sees Hama Gandalf nods in understanding and signals for the others to surrender their weapons. Aragon hands over his sword and knives. Legolas gives a little twirl to his knives before handing them over to the guards. Gimli hands over his axes reluctantly. gestures to Gandalf Glances at his staff.Looks at Hama innocently. Hama hesitates for a second and then gestures that they follow him into the hall. Gandalf gives Aragorn a tiny wink and enters the hall, leaning on Legolas' arm. Leaning down and whispering to Theoden. As Gandalf approaches Theoden, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli pull back and survey the hall and its hostile occupants. A group of men starts to follow their steps with hostility. Whispering to Theoden. Looks to Grima for affirmation. He walks towards Gandalf. Raises his staff against Grima. Backing away from Gandalf while addressing the guards The hostile guards attack. Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli engage them in a fist-fight as Gandalf continues to approach Theoden. Gamling tries to go forward but Hama holds him back. Grima tries to crawl away unnoticed, but Gimli catches him and pins him to the floor. Growls Gestures with his hand MenacinglyGandalf opens his eyes in surprise. Gandalf throws back his grey cloak, exuding blinding white light. Theoden is thrown back against his seat. Points his staff towards Theoden. Eowyn rushes in. Seeing her uncle threatened, she tries to go to him but is held back by Aragorn. In Saruman's voice. Gandalf moves his staff sharply and Theoden flies back against the chair again. in Saruman's voice Gandalf smites Theoden as he lunges at him. Theoden is thrown back into the chair and the shot changes to Saruman flying backwards from the Palantir which he used to manipulate Theoden. He lands landing hard on the floor of Orthanc, bleeding from a gash in his forehead. In the hall, Theoden lets out a moan and slumps forward in the chair. Eowyn runs to her uncle's side as he falls. Theoden's head rises again and his face begins to change gradually into that of a much younger-looking man. Clarity and recognition returns to his eyes. Looks closely at Eowyn Eowyn weeps with joy The hall is shown to be filled with light again, as everyone marvels at the rejuvenation of the king. Standing up and looking around him.He looks down at his trembling hands. Hama runs up with his sword. Theoden reaches for it with trembling hands. He wraps his fingers around it slowly and then draws it, gazing upon the shiny steel. In a corner, Grima trembles and tries to escape but is pulled back by Gimli. Suddenly, Theoden's gaze turns to Grima. Grima is thrown out of the hall and down the stairs. Beseechingly to Theoden Advancing towards Grima, holding the sword firmly in his hand Grovelling Theoden raises his sword to kill Grima. Aragorn holds him back. Grima scrambles to his feet and pushes through the crowd The crowd kneels in homage before Theoden. Aragorn kneels also. Grima rides out of Edoras. As Theoden turns to go back into the hall, he looks up. A white flower comes into view, held up by a hand. It is released and spirals down to land among similar flowers, in front of a tomb. Looks at Gandalf Theoden starts to weep Gandalf turns to go back to the hall and leaves Theoden to grieve in private. He spots two children on horseback. The boy collapses and falls off the horse. Later, inside the Golden Hall, the two children are eating at a table, and Eowyn is with them. Leans forward and puts a hand on Theoden's chair. Theoden looks at his hand warily. Gimli takes a bite of his bread as he watches the exchange between Aragorn and Theoden. Gimli takes a drink and burps. Scene shifts to outside Meduseld People are moving about, gathering their belongings and preparing to move. Gandalf, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli walk towards the stables. They enter the stables Turns to Shadowfax and strokes him Opens the stall gates Legolas jumps back as Gandalf rides out of the stable and over the plains of Rohan. Eowyn opens a chest in which lies a sword. She unsheathes it and begins to practice. She swings around and is met by Aragorn, who blocks her parry. With a swift move, Eowyn swings her sword and renders Aragorn vulnerable, gaining the upper hand. Stepping back and sheathing her sword. He sheaths his knife. He bows and Eowyn gazes after him as he walks away. The people of Rohan are moving out of Edoras towards Helm's Deep, with Theoden leading the way. At Isengard, Grima confers with Saruman, holding a cloth to his mouth. Saruman's eyebrows rise in response. He walks through the depths of Isengard and gives orders to an Orc. The Orc smiles. In a pit behind him, ferocious growls are heard and shadows dances. Gollum is trying to catch a fish in the river. He slips and falls, grasping at a slippery fish as he goes. Frodo and Sam follow behind. Glaring at SamHe walks past Sam and stops. Snapping at Sam Sam walks away slowly. With remorse Looks back at Frodo with tears in his eyes. Grows angry againHe walks away Frodo continues to walk away without looking back. Nighttime, Frodo and Sam are asleep. Gollum is crouching in a corner by himself. Tauntingly Covers his ears Shaking his head Starts to weep and whimper Cackles Weeping and in a small voice Fiercely Resolute Startled Louder Growls and bares his teeth Smeagol pants and then looks around. He hops around in joy and does a little dance. The next day, while the hobbits were resting, Smeagol comes back with two rabbits and drops them onto Frodo's lap. Frodo looks at up him with bloodshot eyes. He smiles at Smeagol and looks at Sam. Smeagol raises a fist in self-congratulation and dances around. He then picks up one of the rabbits and snaps the rabbit's back in front of Frodo. He bites and tears into the raw meat. Sam rushes over and snatches the rabbit out of Gollum's hands Holding up the two rabbits A pot of stew is simmering over a fire. Looking into the pot A faint calling sound catches the attention of Frodo. Sticks out his tongue in disgust He takes a sip of the stew scrambles up close to SamMakes sickeningly happy face.Hops away Frodo follows the source of the sound. Sam suddenly notices that Frodo is no longer in his sight. He goes in search of Frodo and finds him lying down near some bushes looking at a Haradrim army marching across the land. He moves to lie low beside Frodo. Smeagol also moves in beside Frodo. Suddenly grabs Frodo's arm Gigantic Oliphaunts appear, carrying soldiers and supplies on their backs. Smeagol slips away unnoticed. Looking around Suddenly, pandemonium breaks out from below; the soldiers are being ambushed. Cloaked rangers are firing deadly arrows at the soldiers and Oliphaunts from behind bushes. One of the Oliphaunts starts trumpeting and stomping towards Frodo and Sam, swinging his huge trunk and tusks. Faramir takes aim and shoots a soldier. He falls from the Oliphaunt and lands right behind Frodo and Sam, dead. Frodo runs right into a Gondorian Ranger, who grabs hold of him and throws him onto his back. Sam sees Frodo in danger and grapples for his sword He charges at Faramir but is grabbed by another ranger and thrown down. A sword appears at his throat. Faramir appears. Meanwhile, the Rohirrim refugees are heading towards Helm's Deep. Gimli is on a horse, chatting with Eowyn who is leading it by the reins. Eowyn smiles and looks back at Aragorn. Gestures and whispers Laughs gaily The horse suddenly rears up and gallops away as Eowyn loses her hold on the reins. Gimli falls off after a short distance and lands with a loud thump. Struggling to get up Eowyn helps Gimli up. She laughs as she brushes him off and looks back at Aragorn with the sun behind her and the wind in her hair. At that particular moment, Aragorn seems enchanted by Eowyn's light-hearted image. That night. Aragorn could not sleep and smokes his pipe as he thinks of Arwen. Aragorn is lying on a chaise in Rivendell. He opens his eyes and sees Arwen before him, smiling down at him. Bends down to kiss him She kisses him lightly on the lips and then steps away to look out upon Rivendell. Aragorn closes his eyes but for a while. He looks over at Arwen. Turns to look at Aragorn Walks over to Arwen Arwen hushes him, resting her fingers on his lips. As her hands moves down to rest on the Evenstar pendant around Aragorn's neck, he clasps her hand in his and they gaze into each other's eyes. They kiss. The next day, on the journey to Helm's Deep. Eowyn is walking alongside Aragorn. ARAGORN SMILES AND SAYS NOTHING.  Elrond is speaking to Aragorn in Rivendell, before he sets out with the Fellowship. Aragorn and Arwen are together before the Fellowship departs. He takes Arwen ...s hand to return the Evenstar necklace to her. Closes Aragorn's hand over the Evenstar Scene shifts back to Aragorn and Eowyn Gamling and Hama ride to the front. Legolas watches them as they pass. Their horses become restless. Looking around A warg scout appears on a slope above and charges at them. The warg attacks Hama and kills him. Just as it starts to turn on Gamling, Legolas runs over and kills the warg with an arrow. He then draws his knife and kills the Orc. Shouts to Aragorn Running back to Theoden Hearing the alarm, the villagers begin to cry and panic. Trying to mount Arod Gimli gets onto the horse with some help. Legolas gazes into the distance and sees many warg-riders coming fast towards them, kicking up dust trails as they go. To Eowyn Eowyn holds Theoden's gaze for a moment and then turn to attend to the villagers. To his men Tries to get Arod to moveArod moves off with Gimli seated rather unsteadily. To the villagers She looks back at the Rohirrim and sees Aragorn on Hasufel. They hold each other's gaze for a moment before Aragorn turns to join Theoden. Eowyn departs with the villagers in the opposite direction. Legolas takes aim at the distant target and fells a warg rider. He draws another arrow and kills another. Just as he reaches for a third arrow, he sees Theoden and company approaching. He quickly runs and mounts Arod with a smooth leap and joins in the fray with Gimli behind him on horseback. The Rohirrim and warg riders crash head on and the battle begins. Theoden and company hack away at the warg riders. In the midst of fighting, Gimli falls off Arod. He turns to find a warg growling at him. Just as the warg leaps at Gimli, Legolas kills it with one shot. Jumping back as the warg falls, outraged As Gimli swings his axe at another warg, it dies and falls onto Gimli, pinning him under. As he tries to lift the warg off him, an Orc leans over them both. Gimli kills him quickly, twisting his neck, and it lands on him also. Gimli sniffs at the Orc and makes a face. He tries to lift both the warg and Orc off him. Just then, another warg comes upon him and bares its teeth, ready to strike. Eyes widening Aragorn plucks a spear as he passes on horseback and throws it at the warg. It dies, landing on Gimli and adding to the pile on top of him. As the warg lands on him Theoden stabs at a warg rider. Aragorn is knocked off Hasufel and attacked by Sharku. Aragorn tries to kill the warg rider but Sharku blocks his attempt and grabs Aragorn by the neck, while the latter is half-dragged by the warg. In the struggle, Sharku is thrown off and he rips the Evenstar pendant from Aragorn's neck as he falls. Aragorn tries to let go of the warg but finds his wrist tangled with the saddle straps. He tries unsuccessfully to disentangle himself and is dragged closer and closer to the edge of a cliff at great speed. The warg runs right off the cliff and they both disappear over the edge. The battle is winding down as the Rohirrim finish off the last few wargs and Orcs. Looking around They come near to the cliff and hear Sharku wheezing and laughing Standing over the dying Orc coughLaughs evilly Looks towards the edge of the cliff, and grabs Sharku Sharku chortles and dies. Legolas looks down at Sharku's fist and finds the Evenstar pendant. He takes it, runs to the edge of the cliff and looks down to see the great drop and rushing waters below, with no sign of Aragorn. Gimli comes to stand beside him. To his men Legolas turns to Theoden, an expression of perplexed anger on his face. Puts a hand on Legolas' shoulder He leaves Legolas and Gimli to stare down at the river. The Rohan villagers are drawing close to Helm's Deep. Cries of relief are heard as the refuge is within sight. To Eowyn Eowyn embraces the woman and they walk on towards Helm's Deep. The gate is opened for the villagers. Many have already taken refuge within and are resting along the passage. Eothain and Freda run towards their mother. The three hug and cry with joy. Theoden and company returns from the battle with warg riders Eowyn rushes down to meet them Looking about Dismounting Going up to Eowyn Eowyn is shaken and raises teary eyes to Theoden. The latter looks down and then walks away, confirming her unasked question. At the battlements Walks down the steps and past a sewer gate Camera zooms in on the gate Camera turns to Grima and Saruman at Orthanc. Saruman is pouring some dark dry substances into a vessel. Grima is holding a lit candle in his hand. As he steps closer to the vessel, Saruman takes hold of Grima's hand and pushes the candle away from the vessel firmly. He walks away towards the balcony. Following Saruman Both of them came onto the balcony of the tower. Grima suddenly sees and hears the enormous armies laid out below in neat rows and is astounded and awed. He continues to hold the extinguished candle aloft as he gapes at the vast army below. A horn is sounded, announcing the appearance of Saruman. A loud cheer is heard from the army. Saruman raises a hand. The army cheers and roars. The camera keeps zooming out from the balcony over the incredible size of Saruman's army, past Uruk-hai, spears, and banners and yet more Uruk-hai. The camera focuses back on Saruman who then raises his hands in the air The army cheers and roars even louder. Sneers A tear flows down Grima's cheek. The Uruk-hai army began their march to Helm's Deep. Merry and Pippin are travelling through the forest, carried by Treebeard. The two hobbits climb higher up onto Treebeard for a better view. Pippin and Merry are now on top of Treebeard and they see a massive army moving across the land Aragorn is floating in the river, unconscious. He is washed ashore and dreams of Arwen. Kissing him on the lips A horse arrives and nudges Aragorn, turning him over and nuzzling him. MumblesHe grabs hold of Brego's mane, pulls himself onto the horse and rides slowly to Helms Deep. Arwen is lying on her bed, deep in thought. Coming into her room Arwen hears him and sits up. Walks towards window and looks out Arwen sees a vision of her future as Elrond speaks. She is dressed as a queen in mourning garb and looking down upon Aragorn, a crown on his brow, Anduril in his hand, and dead. Mourners are walking around the altar, paying their final respects. Arwen is weeping. The body of Aragorn is now cast as a monument in stone. Arwen stands before the monument, veiled and in black. Still veiled in black, Arwen is walking alone through the deserted woods of Lothlorien. Tuning to Arwen The vision ends and Arwen weeps with sadness and fear. Elrond comes to sit beside his daughter and raises a hand to her cheek. Crying and moving into her father's embrace Elves, cloaked and carrying a lantern each, are setting off from Rivendell on their journey to the West. Elrond looks on as Arwen leaves with them. Arwen turns back to look at her father one last time before she departs. Elrond continues to stare after her with an expression of resigned sadness. Elrond is standing by a window. He hears Galadriel speaking. Saruman is communicating with Sauron via the Palantir.View of Saruman's marching armyView of OsgiliathClose-up of Galadriel Close-up of the Ring spinning in slow motion We see Faramir and Gondorian rangers with the captured Frodo and Sam. Faramir and company have reached Henneth Ann'n. Frodo and Sam and being carries, blinded-folded into the cave. Close-up of Galadriel's luminous eyes with their deep pools of wisdom. We then see Elrond in his library, looking at the painting of Isildur facing down Sauron with the broken blade of Narsil. Scene returns to Henneth Ann'n. Faramir is conferring with his man. They unroll a map. Points at the map Tracing on the map The hobbits are unbound and blindfolds taken off them by Damrod and another ranger. Sam and Frodo find themselves in a cave behind a waterfall, with Damrod sitting behind them on a rock constantly watching them. Faramir comes up to them and sits. Frodo and Sam remain silent. The merest hesitation. Sam looks shifty-eyed and uncomfortable. Intently Shocked Pause Faramir is sitting alone, deep in thought. Suddenly someone comes up to him. whispers Frodo and Sam are sleeping. Frodo awakens as Faramir stands before him. Frodo gets up and follow. They come to the edge of the waterfall, overlooking the Forbidden Pool. Pointing down Frodo looks down and sees Gollum diving into the water. He gestures to archers hidden in the bushes. The Rangers notch their arrows Frodo looks stricken. Gollum emerges from the pool onto a rock. He holds a fish in his hand and starts singing, slapping the fish on the rock as he goes. singingWhacks the fish on the rockwhacksThe fish almost wriggles out of his grasp and he whacks it some more. Faramir has his hand raised to order his men to shoot. At the last moment, Frodo calls out. Faramir stops Faramir nods. Frodo descends to the Forbidden Pool and approaches Gollum who is gorging on the raw fish. Gollum turns round at Frodo's voice. Frodo gestures for Gollum to follow him. With the fish between his teeth, Gollum follows Frodo warily. Suddenly he looks up in alarm and is caught by Rangers. wails A black cloth is brought over Gollum's head. Frodo stares after them with a stricken expression as Faramir leads Gollum and his men away. Back in the cave, Gollum is thrown down to the ground. Crying, he crawls into a corner and curls up into ball. Cooing, his hand stroking his shoulder Sobbing Sobbing Hits his fist against the wall Whimpers Turns to Faramir with a ferocious expressionHe bares his teeth and growls Back in their holding area, Sam and Frodo are alone. They both stand as Faramir enters. Unsheathes his sword Faramir lifts the Ring from Frodo's neck with the tip of his sword. Frodo is backed up fearfully against the wall. The Ring whispers and Frodo falls into a trance. Suddenly, he grabs the Ring in his hand and jerks himself away. He runs away from Faramir Faramir stares at Frodo. Just then Damrod enters. He turns to leave. Sam looks after Faramir sadly. Aragorn is riding towards Helm's Deep. On the way, he sees an enormous Uruk-hai army marching with great speed. He quickly makes haste towards Helm's Deep and soon sees the refuge. Patting Brego on the neck He rides into Helm's Deep to the amazement of all. Pushing his way through the crowd.He sees Aragorn.He hugs Aragorn. Gimli gestures to the hall. As Aragorn makes his way in, he runs into Legolas who stands waiting. They smile. Legolas pauses and looks at Aragorn's wounds. To the side, Eowyn sees Aragorn and smiles joyously and with relief. Legolas takes Aragorn's hand and gives the Evenstar pendant. Aragorn looks at the Evenstar and claps Legolas on the shoulder. Eowyn looks on and smiles even as tears fill her eyes. Aragorn is in the keep, conferring with Theoden Walks away resolutely Along the passage behind the Deeping Wall. to Gamling Gamling nods and goes off. Theoden stands at the gate of Helm's Deep, speaking to Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli. Gimli seems miffed. Legolas claps a hand on Gimli's shoulder as he follows Aragorn and Theoden back in. Draws close to Aragorn He walks away, calling out orders Cutting him off to the soldiers Men rush to prepare for battle as flocks of carrion crows circle overhead. Treebeard walks through the forest carrying Merry and Pippin. He comes to a clearing and stops. Merry and Pippin turns round as they hear movement from the forest around them. They see many more Ents like Treebeard gathering. Merry licks his lips in anticipation. Back at Helm's Deep, the women and children are being led into the caves. Old men and young lads are being drafted for war. The women and children say their tearful and reluctant farewells as their fathers, husbands and sons are led away by soldiers. In the armoury, weapons are being distributed. Aragorn picks up a battered sword, looks at it and tosses it back. The men around them fell silent. Legolas speaks to Aragorn. He pauses and then walks away. Legolas makes as if to go after him. Puts a hand on Legolas In the hall Puts armour onto Theoden The villagers are handed their weapons. An oversized helmet is placed on a wide-eyed boy. Another stares at the axe that he is handed with frightened eyes. Another child wearing oversized chain mail takes up a huge shield. Theoden stands inside the main hall of the keep, his back to the entrance where a bright white light is streaming through. Everyone is getting ready for war at the battlements. Aragorn is sitting on the steps. He sees a young lad in armour holding a sword looking around nervously. Aragorn gives the battered sword a few swings. He hands the sword back to Haleth and leans close to him, putting a hand on his shoulder. Back at the armoury, Aragorn dons his battle gear. His sword is handed to him as he reaches for it. He nods and accepts the sword from Legolas. They smile and clap one another on the shoulders. They look at Gimli as he walks up to them, struggling with his chain mail. He drops the bundle and the chain mail lands with its length right to the floor. Aragorn and Legolas bite back smiles. Just then, a horn sounds in the background They run out to the battlements. The guards look down in wonderment. to another guard An army of Lothlorien Elves march up the Causeway into the Hornburg. They are led by Haldir. The Rohirrim soldiers look upon them in wonderment and delight as they pass. He looks up to see Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli running down the steps, and smiles He bowsHe grabs Haldir in a huge embrace. Initially stunned, Haldir hugs him back lightly. Legolas and Haldir clasp each other on the shoulder. Turning to Theoden Men and Elves are in their positions on the battlements of Helm's Deep. The sounds of a marching army move closer and closer. The women and children in the caves hear the sounds overhead and are frightened. Mothers draw their children close and try to sooth crying babies. The men and Elves look out into the darkness, lit by the thousands of torches carried by the huge advancing Uruk-hai army and the light bouncing off their armour. With a row of Elf archers, Gimli is standing beside Legolas behind a wall, only the top of his helmet visible. Grumbling and straining to look above the wall. Legolas smirks. Aragorn approaches and stands beside them Thunder sounds and lightning flashes, revealing the sea of approaching Uruk-hai. The marching and thumping grows louder and louder. Lightning flashes and it begins to rain. While the Uruk-hai army continues to march at the fortress, an Uruk-hai leader steps on a rock outcrop. Aragorn is giving commands to the Elf warriors. The Uruk-hai leader raises his swords and commands his army to stop with a terrifying animalic cry. The Uruks stop and growl in anticipation of the upcoming battle and slaughter Jumping and straining to see Looks at Gimli with a grin Laughs good-naturedly The Uruk Leader cries out once, encouraging the Uruk-hai to start roaring and thumping their spears furiously.The women and children in the caves huddle together in fear. Suddenly, Aldor, the old man next to Haleth, loses his grip and releases his arrow prematurely, shooting an Uruk-hai in the neck. The Uruk-hai army stop their roaring and thumping. With a hollow groan, the Uruk that was shot collapsed to the ground. The other Uruk-hai bare their teeth and roar with anger. With a cry, the Uruk-hai leader thrusts his weapon in the air and the Uruk-hai army starts charging. The Elves notch their arrow and aim. Arrows rain down on the Uruk-hai below, killing many. to the men More arrows are released. But the Uruk-hai army keep advancing, with more replacing those fallen. Impatiently The Uruk-hai start to load ladders onto the walls, pushing them up with their long spears. The Elves draw their blades in preparation for combat. The first ladders are almost reaching the walls with big nasty Uruk Berserkers on top of them. Close combat begins as the Uruk-hai climb over the wall. Holding up two fingers OutragedHe turns to a Uruk just climbing over the wall, whacking it in the groin with his axe and killing it as it falls. Fires two arrows The Ent Moot is still in progress. The Ents sway a little as they continue to deliberate. Merry and Pippin are sitting a distance away. Suddenly, Treebeard nods and turns to the hobbits. Gesturing Long pause with his eyes closed. Angles his head in query impatiently Waving a hand Merry and Pippin roll their eyes in disgruntlement. Gimli is standing on the wall between two ladders, hacking away at Uruk-hai as they come up Camera pans over the Uruk-hai below and turns to the Causeway. A group of Uruk-hai is advancing on the Causeway towards the gate in tortoise formation, using their broad shields to block off attacks. Directs the Elf archers to aim at the Uruk-hai column. The Elf archers release their arrows. The Uruk-hai at the sides are shot and fall down the Causeway. But the column keeps advancing. At the bottom of the Deeping Wall, two spiky bombs are lodge in the sluice gate. The rest opens a path and an Uruk-hai carrying a torch starts to run towards the sluice gate. Aragorn spots the Uruk-hai. Legolas shoots the Uruk-hai in the shoulder but the latter keeps going Legolas shoots the Uruk again. It stumbles and then throws it self and the torch at the bombs. An enormous explosion is set off, blowing away a large part of the wall. Rock, debris and bodies are thrown up. Aragorn is also thrown back by the force of the explosion and on the ground, knocked out. Theoden looks on in shock as the Uruk-hai streams in past the Deeping Walls. Gimli sees the Uruk-hai charging in with Aragorn in their path. With a cry, he jumps down from the wall and lands on the Uruk-hai army, taking them out as he stands. He is soon overpowered. Aragorn gets up and sees Gimli falling. He yells to the Elves behind him The arrows take out the first group of Uruk-hai coming through the hole in the wall. Aragorn leads the Elves in a charge towards the Uruk-hai streaming in. He rushes to Gimli's side and picks him up. At the top of the battlements, Legolas grabs a shield and sends it sliding across the ground. He then hops onto it and surfs down the steps, releasing three arrows as he goes, and kicking the shield to stab an Uruk-hai as he lands at the bottom. At the Ent Moot The Ents look at one another, taken back Merry is putting on his jacket. Pippin approaches him slowly Looking into the distance.Turns to Pippin and puts a hand on his shoulder Pippin looks after Merry as he walks away. Haldir nods and turns back. Gimli is being carried away, kicking and struggling as he goes Protesting HALDIR HACKS AT A FEW URUK AS HE TURNS TOWARDS THE GATE. SUDDENLY, HE IS STABBED IN HIS ARM. and looks down as his wound in seeming disbelief. An Uruk-hai comes up from behind him unnoticed and slices him on the neck. As Haldir goes down, he looks around him and sees his kin fallen among dead Uruk-hai. Sees Haldir fallingHe runs up the steps to Haldir's side and catches him and he collapses. Haldir's head rolls back, his eyes empty and unseeing. Aragorn bows his head in grief. Then with a cry, he jumps onto a ladder and swings down to the ground, killing as he goes. Drawing his sword Theoden and his commanders come to the gate, which is under heavy attack. The Uruk-hai are knocking down the gate and hacking through the broken wood. Theoden stabs at an Uruk-hai and receives a lance in his shoulder, blocked by his armour. Grimacing in pain, Theoden continues to stab at the Uruk until led away by Gamling. Runs up and stabs away at the Uruk-hai through the broken gate Aragorn and Gimli slip out a side exit and stand on a ledge just to the side of the main gate. Aragorn peeks over, seeing the large band of Uruk-hai storming the gate. Gimli takes a peek and then steps back. Mumbles Aragorn nods slowly and then turns to grab the Dwarf. Gimli stays Aragorn's hand He tosses Gimli to the head of the Causeway and then leaps over. Making quick work of killing the Uruk-hai On the other side of the gate Men are bracing the gate with wood and nails. Aragorn and Gimli continue to fight off the Uruk-hai just outside. Meanwhile the Uruk-hai load and fires enormous hooks over the battlements. Hundred of Uruk-hai climb onto super-ladders as they are pulled up towards the walls, the super-ladders locking onto the edge of the battlements with their steel grips. Legolas takes aim as another super-ladder is being pulled up and shoots away one of the ropes. The ladder falls back onto the Uruk-hai army. Through a crack in the gate Legolas calls to them from the top of the battlements He throws them a rope Aragorn grabs Gimli in one hand and the rope with the other as they are pulled up the wall. Just then the Uruk-hai load and fires enormous hooks over the battlements. Hundred of Uruk-hai climb onto super-ladders as they are pulled up towards the walls, the super-ladders locking onto the edge of the battlements with their steel grips. Legolas takes aim as another super-ladder is being pulled up and shoots away one of the ropes. The ladder falls back onto the Uruk-hai army. They all run towards the keep, Legolas firing two arrows into the Uruk-hai army as he goes. Treebeard is walking through the forest, carrying Merry and Pippin. The hobbits look dejected. Pippin suddenly looks up with a gleam in his eyes. Treebeard comes to a stop. Faramir and company draws close to Osgiliath. With tears in his eyes Faramir hesitates for a moment. He presses them on Frodo and Sam are pushed on towards Osgiliath Treebeard, Merry and Pippin come to the southern edge of the forest. He sees the desolated landscape of tree stumps that used to be forested grounds With tears in his eyesHis gaze turns to the treeless Isengard and its smoking caverns He lets out a ferocious roar that echoes through the forest Merry and Pippin turn around as they hear rumbles from the forest. They see many Ents emerging and marching towards them Osgiliath is still under siege as Faramir and company arrives, dodging arrows and falling rocks. Frodo suddenly seems stricken Frodo sees that Sam is speaking to him but he hears nothing. His senses are overcome. Sam breaks away as they are being led away. A boulder crashes into a tower overhead and shatters it. Suddenly, Frodo's eyes roll up and he stares at Faramir strangely. In a faraway voice Looking upHe grabs the hobbits and thrusts them into a corner.To his men Banners of the White Hand are flying from the battlements of Helm's Deep. The Hornburg is overrun with Uruk-hai. Theoden and company are in the hall of the keep. Carrying a table with Legolas to shore up the door of the hall In the Glittering Caves, the women and children cry in fear as they hear the battering ram banging on the door. There is no answer. Pause A light of determination shines in his eyes Aragorn looks up at a window to see faint light streaming through. He recalls Gandalf's words. Gimli runs up the steps to the horn of Helm Hammerhand He mounts his horse and puts on his helmet. The sound of the horn rumbles through Helm's Deep as Gimli blows with gusto. Theoden leads the charge out of the keep into the Hornburg, slashing away at the Uruk-hai as they go. Without pause, they storm out of the gate and down the Causeway, right into the column of waiting Uruk-hai. In the midst of battle, Aragorn looks east and sees a white rider against the rising sun Coming up from behindHe raises a hand Riders move up behind Eomer. Looking to the east The Rohirrim and the White Rider charge down the slope. Half the Uruk-hai army turns to face the challenge, bearing their spears down towards the riders. As the riders draw closer, the sun rises behind them, momentarily blinding the Uruk-hai who raise the hands and spears to shield their eyes. The riders crash right into the Uruk-hai and engage them in battle. The Ents are stomping over Isengard, swinging their huge limbs, throwing and stamping on Orcs and rolling huge boulders over the ground. An Ent is pulled down with chains by some Orcs, who immediately jump on and hacks away at his wooden limbs. Saruman rushes out onto the balcony of Orthanc and stares at the pandemonium in incredulity. Merry and Pippin also throws stones at Orcs, their aims true. Two Ents rock a wooden structure and push it over into the caverns below, smashing against the rock. Some Orcs fire flamed-tipped arrows at an Ent, setting him on fire. Saruman continues to look about from his balcony, helpless. Some Ents are now breaking away at a dam. The dam is broken and Saruman looks up to see the river rushing down the slope towards Isengard, washing away Orcs and wooden structures in its path. The hobbits tighten their hold on top of Treebeard Treebeard braces himself against the flood. As the water rushes over Isengard, an Ent rushes in and thrusts his burning body into the water. The water rushes into the caverns, washing away the bridges, mechanisms and structures within. Frodo walks slowly away from the safe corner. Gondorian Rangers are still running about, defending their stations. SLOW MOTION Frodo walks up some stairs and stands on a bridge. A Nazgul on a Fell beast emerges in front of him. Frodo stares at the Nazgul, fixated. Feeling the call of the Ring, he holds it up. Faramir watches the unfolding tableau from below. As Frodo moves to put the Ring on his finger and the Nazgul flies closer and closer, Sam runs up and knocks Frodo over. Faramir releases an arrow and shoots the Fell Beast. Frodo and Sam roll down the stairs. As they come to a stop at the bottom, Frodo holds Sam in a death grip, yells and points Sting at his throat, his eyes livid with madness and anger that someone would try to take the Ring away. With tears running down his face The madness fades and recognition returns to Frodo's eyes. He realises what he nearly did and is overcome. Stumbling backwards, he collapses against a wall and Sting falls to the ground with a clang. Sam gets up slowly. Slowly and with despair Getting up slowlyHe stands and leans against a wall, looking out into the distance.Images of the riders winning the battle against the Uruk-hai at Helm's Deep He raises his sword with a victorious cry The women and children welcome the men as they return. Eowyn runs up to Aragorn and embraces him, crying tears of relief.Isengard is flooded. Merry and Pippin looks on from their perch on Treebeard. On the balcony, Saruman stumbles back into his chamber Standing in a corner, even Gollum seems moved. Faramir walks over and comes to kneel in front of Frodo Sam shakes the ranger's hand from his shoulder. Frodo looks up at Faramir with gladness. Over in the realm of Rohan, Gandalf, Theoden and company ride to the top of a slope, looking towards the Mountain of Fire in the distance. Frodo and Sam are walking through the woods, away from Osgiliath. Frodo turns to look at Sam. smilingHe turns to walk on DreamilyHe gives his backpack a heave and follows Frodo Gollum is crouching a short distance away Twists the branch of a tree Scuttles and hides behind a tree Bites on his finger and nods eagerly Backs away against a tree He looks in the direction of the hobbits Softly and sinisterly He pops out from hiding in front of the hobbits. He turns to walk on, with Frodo and Sam following behind. Camera pans up over the forest and Ephel D'ath to reveal the desolation of Mordor. To the left of the frame is the glowing Eye of Sauron atop Barad-dur, and to the right of the frame is the fiery Mount Doom. Three Fell Beasts circle the dark skies. Lightning flashes as the scene fades to black. 